---
title: '7 Best Practices to Train Your Distributors SalesForce'
og_title: '7 Best Practices to Train Your Distributors SalesForce'
description: Implementing an effective distributor sales training program is essential to drive success in your distributor sales channel. Follow these 7 best practices to train your distributor salesforce
og_description: Implementing an effective distributor sales training program is essential to drive success in your distributor sales channel. Follow these 7 best practices to train your distributor salesforce
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 100
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -100
slug: "/7-best-practices-to-train-your-distributors-salesforce"
featured_image: "/images/100.7-best-practices-to-train-your-distributors-salesForce.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-07-25T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Training"]
relatedBlogs : ["How to Deliver Training to your Remote Sales Staff?", "30 60 90 Days Gamified Sales Training Plan", "‘Work from Home Warriors’: Sales Training Game for Remote Sales Teams", "Survey Questions to ask your Sales Team before a New Product Launch Training", "Spaced Repetition and Microlearning: Two peas in a pod", "Why continuous training is important in sales?", "5 Reasons to Use Video Coaching in Your Sales Process"]
---

Today’s customers are smarter and savvier than ever before. Just with a few swipes on their smartphones, they can find reviews of

* Your company

* Your products and services

* Ratings of how you stack up against your competitors

* Recommendations for your products from other customers, and more

<br>

### **Why is Distributor Training Important?**

When distributor sales is one of your channels for sales, it’s important to equip them with the right resources and training. Driving product knowledge amongst the distributor sales force is very important. 

<br>

### **Here are 7 Best Practices to train your distributors**

#### **1. Identify Distributor’s Training Needs**

Customer queries can come directly to your distributors. They are aware of the importance of having the right product knowledge to answer these questions. Reach out to them and identify the different areas that they need to improve on.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10">
    <p>Conduct a <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/survey-questions-to-ask-your-sales-team-before-new-product-launch-training/" target="_blank">pre-training survey</a> to uncover their training needs. Discuss the business goals of your distributors and see how you can align your training program to help them achieve their goals.</p>
  </div>
</div>


This will help you gain valuable insights to structure a training program that appeals to your audience.

<br>

#### **2. Align training program to your business goals**

Think of this scenario: you have launched a series of new products. You want your distributors to focus on these new products. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title ml_text_bold">In order for that to happen, the distributor sales force need to:</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10">
    <ul>
      <li>Be aware of the new products</li>
      <li>Know their features, advantages, and benefits </li>
      <li>How these products compare to your competitors</li>
      <li>How to sell them</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

Align your training program to these goals. This makes it easy for you to measure the ROI and get the most out of the training.

<br>

#### **3. Conduct Live Training Sessions or Webinars**

Distributors won’t have the motivation to sell the products that they don’t understand. So take the time to conduct training sessions every now and then. You can conduct these sessions once every month for 2-3 hours. You could choose to increase this frequency when you are about to launch a new product or run special offers on your products. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title ml_text_bold">The training should cover:</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10">
    <ul>
      <li>How each product works</li>
      <li>What are the unique features and benefits of various products</li>
      <li>How to perfectly pitch or give a demo of the products </li>
      <li>How to deliver your brand value while selling</li>
      <li>How to install and service the product (if required)</li>
      <li>How to train the customers with using a product (if needed)</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

Here are various ways in which you could deliver the training remotely:

* Live instructor-led training sessions through Teams or WebEx

* Webinars with interactive features like polls, surveys, and ability to ask questions

* Podcasts or digital recordings of instructional material

Use a mix of all these techniques to keep the training interesting and engaging.

<br>

#### **4. Reinforce Training Regularly**

Training shouldn’t end with the end of training sessions. You need to implement on-going training in order to consistently reinforce critical information.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title ml_text_bold">You can send the reinforcements in a lot of ways:</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10">
    <ul>
      <li><span class="ml_text_bold">Microlearning:</span> Break down your entire training content into short, digestible chunks of information. You can split the content topic-wise. Send these <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/use-micro-learning-to-turbo-charge-your-sales-team/" target="_blank">short bursts of information</a> in the form of infographics, videos, or short twitter-like feeds. This allows learners to absorb the training content easily and quickly.</li>
      <li><span class="ml_text_bold">Just-in-time learning:</span> Deliver these smaller chunks of information to the learners regularly on their mobile devices. This enables the learners to consume information anywhere and anytime they want.</li>
      <li><span class="ml_text_bold">Quizzes:</span> Conduct short assessments regularly to test their knowledge retention</li>
      <li><span class="ml_text_bold">Structured learning Paths:</span> Encapsulate crucial information into structured learning paths and assign them to learners. Especially helpful during new product launch and onboarding of new salespeople</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10"><a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">Learn more about how SmartWinnr can help you with virtual training</a></div> 

<br>

#### **5. Gamify to make learning fun and engaging**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/blog/2016/09/accelerate-your-sales-performance-through-gamification/" target="_blank">Gamify the learning activities</a> in order to create fun and excitement around learning. The goal here is to engage the learners by creating a competitive environment. 

Some techniques that are proven and works:

**Quizzes**: Create competition around the quizzes. Conduct a quiz test once every week and assign scores to the participants based on their performance. Then, at the end of each month, add up each participant’s score from all the quizzes taken throughout the month. Select the top 3 people with the highest score and reward them with exciting prizes.

**Video Coaching**: This makes for a fun and interesting competition. Conduct a video coaching contest once every month. Ask the learners to record a video of themselves pitching any one of your products and submit it. Then, review their videos and reward the person who delivers a perfect pitch (covering all the features and benefits of the product). 

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-bottom20">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Pro-Tip:</span> You can conduct video coaching around various sales scenarios and conversations like: </p>
  <ul>
    <li>Product pitching</li>
    <li>Price Objection handling</li>
    <li>Sales Negotiation</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Use <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">SmartWinnr’s video coaching</a> tool to run your video coaching competitions</div> 

**Course Completion**: You can <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/" target="_blank">incentivize</a> learners for completing a course or structured learning path. You may offer certificates or other rewards for completing the entire course or various important sections of it. Like: 

* Product knowledge certification

* Compliances and policies badge etc

Put up these rewards on a leaderboard to create a friendly competition

**Surveys and polls**: You can also gamify the surveys and polls that you conduct during the webinars. Reward the participants who give the most accurate or creative answers during the polls.

**Incentivize Engagement during the sessions**: You can also incentivize the learners’ dedication and best behavior during the training sessions. For example, you could give: 

* Coupon codes to those who frequently ask good questions in the chat feed 

* Weekend entertainment tickets to those who give best insights, examples or real experiences about a particular topic 

* Amazon gift card to the person who gives correct answers to all the questions asked by the presenter during the session.

<br>

#### **6. Have a communication and collaboration portal**

Along with an on-going training program, it is important that you build a strong communication channel with your distributors. By actively indulging in learning and selling, they would often have:

* Questions they would like to ask

* Discuss certain sales scenarios

* Discuss certain topics to expand their knowledge on

You need to be available to answer their questions at all times. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10">
    <p>Establish a Q&A channel through a mobile app,  where your distributor sales force can post their questions. The questions can be directed at specific teams like marketing, product teams, training team, or quality teams. You are able to create an organizational memory that will help you in the long run.
    </p>
  </div>
</div>

<br>

#### **7. Request for Feedback**

Conduct a <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/post-training-survey-questions/" target="_blank">post-training survey</a> and request for feedback from your distributors about their experience with your training program. You can conduct this survey after the training sessions and also at regular intervals. This helps you to regularly gauge the success of your training sessions. 

<br>

### **Learn how Poly runs sales training for their global sales teams through SmartWinnr**

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/customer-stories/polycom-laura-welch-interview/" target="_blank">Click here to read how Poly runs their sales training program through SmartWinnr</a>

<br>

### **Want to gamify your training? Check out the below articles which explain how to best gamify training**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/improve-employee-engagement-of-your-remote-teams-with-gamification/" target="_blank">Improve Employee Engagement of your Remote Teams with Gamification</a>

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/30-60-90-days-gamified-sales-training-plan/" target="_blank">30 60 90 Days Gamified Sales Training Plan</a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-deliver-training-to-your-remote-sales-staff/" target="_blank">‘Work from Home Warriors’: Sales Training Game for Remote Sales Teams</a>

<br>

### **Looking for some exciting training games?**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/7-sales-training-games-that-actually-boost-your-sales-teams-skills/" target="_blank">7 Sales Training Games that actually boost your sales team’s skills</a>

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/5-sales-role-play-games-that-prepares-your-team-to-win/" target="_blank">5 Sales Role Play Games that Prepares your Team to Win</a>


<br>


### **Learn about the ideal learner’s journey that leads to creating sales experts**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/learners-journey-making-of-a-sales-expert/" target="_blank">The Learner’s Journey: Making of a Sales Expert</a>

<br>

### **Looking for a sales training software that takes your sales training to a whole new level?**

Explore <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/" target="_blank">SmartWinnr’s Learning</a> and <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/gamification/" target="_blank">Gamification</a> features. Learn how to run fun and engaging sales training for your team through SmartWinnr.

Curious to learn more about it? <a href="" target="_blank">Book a demo</a> today!
