---
title: 'Sales Contest Names for the Telecom Industry'
og_title: 'Sales Contest Names for the Telecom Industry'
description: Through gamified sales contests, you can boost your telecom sales by 60% and take your sales team’s productivity to the next level. Looking for cool, creative and catchy telecom sales contest names?
og_description: Through gamified sales contests, you can boost your telecom sales by 60% and take your sales team’s productivity to the next level. Looking for cool, creative and catchy telecom sales contest names?
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 104
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -104
slug: "/sales-contest-names-for-the-telecom-industry"
featured_image: "/images/104.sales-contest-names-for-the-telecom-industry.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-08-17T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests", "Gamification"]
relatedBlogs : ["Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "25 Creative Sales Team Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "Sales Contest Communication Template", "Creative Employee Recognition Award Names", "How to Launch a Sales Contest"]
---

Thanks to the power of telecom companies around the world, the whole world fits into our hands today. With a device connected to cellular network and internet connection-- we can communicate with anyone across the world and get access to any information we want.
Telecommunications is one of the most crucial, fast-paced and competitive industries out there.

Selling in such a highly competitive industry is not an easy job. Telecom sales reps have to constantly:

* Uncover and understand various customers’ needs 

* Provide customized solutions to them

* Keep abreast with the latest technology trends

* Continuously educate themselves on new and existing products and services

* Deal with customer complaints 

How can you motivate them to deliver their best? An innovative way to drive this motivation is by conducting some interesting and engaging sales contests 

<!-- For creative sales contest ideas, make sure to check out our articles below:

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"> 
<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-run-a-march-madness-contest-the-step-by-step-guide/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">How to Run a March Madness Contest - The Step by Step Guide</a><br><br>
<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contests-for-winter/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">5 Sales Contests for Winter</a><br><br>
<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/5-sales-contest-for-summer/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">5 Sales Contest for Summer</a><br><br>
<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/9-proven-sales-contests-that-drive-productivity/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">9 Proven Sales Contests that Drive Productivity</a>
</div> -->

Once you have an interesting contest idea that you’d like to run, you need to give it a catchy name in order to grab the attention of your audience. 

To help you with this, we have compiled a list to cool, creative, and catchy telecom sales contest names. Check them out below:

<br>

### **Contests for Training you Sales Reps**

<div class="ml-margin-left10">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">1. Contest Chest:</span> Conduct this quiz contest once every week to <span class="ml_highlighted_text">improve your reps’ knowledge</span> of:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Products and services</li>
    <li>Market</li>
    <li>Latest Technologies</li>
    <li>Customer personas</li>
    <li>Competitors etc</li>
  </ul>
  <p>The rep who scores the highest in the quiz wins and gets a chest filled with exciting goodies</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">2. Pitch Perfect:</span> Conduct this video coaching contest once every month. Pick one of your products or service plans each month. Ask your reps to deliver a <span class="ml_highlighted_text">perfect sales pitch</span> of that product/service-- by clearly demonstrating features, benefits, usage, etc. The rep who delivers the most effective pitch wins the competition.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">3. Pun Intended:</span> This makes for a fun contest for your new hire sales reps. Conduct a video coaching contest during NHT(new hire training) and ask your <span class="ml_highlighted_text">new hires to pitch a product</span> in a fun way. Whoever comes up with the most creative and fun way of pitching the product wins the competition.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">4. Selling Alley:</span> Conduct this quiz contest once every week and focus it around <span class="ml_highlighted_text">improving your reps’ sales knowledge.</span> Focus the quizzes on topics like:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Objection Handling Techniques</li>
    <li>Sales Methodology</li>
    <li>Best Closing Techniques etc</li>
  </ul>
  <p>The top 3 reps with the highest score in the quiz win the competition.</p>
</div>

<!-- <div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Use <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">SmartWinnr’s Targeted Learning</a> to train, engage and empower your salesforce from a single platform</div> -->

<br>

### **Contests to Drive General Telecom KPIs**

<div class="ml-margin-left10">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">5. Bon appétit:</span> This is an amazing contest to motivate your sales reps to bring in leads every day. Conduct this contest every day for two hours.  Encourage your staff to <span class="ml_highlighted_text">fill the sales pipeline</span> with as many leads as they can. Whoever brings in the highest number of leads within the given time wins the competition. Reward the winner instantly by offering delicious lunch/dinner on the same day.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">6. Referrals Race:</span> Run this as a weekly contest and motivate your employees to <span class="ml_highlighted_text">earn as many referrals</span> as possible. By the end of the week, the rep who earns more referrals than the rest wins the competition. Reward the winner with an Amazon gift card or weekend entertainment tickets.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">7. New Lines Nintendo:</span> The goal of this Nintendo-themed contest is to <span class="ml_highlighted_text">install new lines/services in various areas</span> in a city. To run this contest, assign one region to each one of your reps. Encourage them to get bookings for new line installations from their assigned area. By the end of the contest, the rep who gets the highest number of bookings wins the contest. Have a Nintendo-themed leaderboard to track the progress of this contest.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">8. < New Product > Mega League:</span> Conduct this contest when you have <span class="ml_highlighted_text">launched a new product</span> into the market. Run this as a quarterly contest between your sales teams in various territories. Encourage them to promote the sales of the new product throughout the quarter. By the end of the quarter, the team that sells the highest number of units of the product wins the competition.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">9. Retention Squad:</span> Some customers might decide to discontinue using your services after a certain period of time. Focus this contest around <span class="ml_highlighted_text">retaining such customers.</span> Run this as a yearly contest and reward all the reps who successfully retain customers who were about to cancel their service.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">10. Strikeout Competition:</span> Run this as a quarterly or yearly contest to focus on <span class="ml_highlighted_text">winning on top of your competitors.</span> Reward your reps every time they successfully convince a prospect to opt for your product rather than your competitor’s product.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">11. Rule over < territory-name >:</span> Focus this contest around <span class="ml_highlighted_text">increasing the sales</span> of your products and services in a particular territory. By the end of the contest, the rep who sells the highest (in terms of the number of products and services sold) wins the competition.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">12. Close Now, Wine Later:</span> Run this contest for 6 months. Motivate your staff to aim to <span class="ml_highlighted_text">close the biggest deal (in terms of revenue).</span> The winner of this contest gets to go on a weekend trip to a vineyard with her family.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">13. Revenue Rush:</span> Run this as a quarterly contest between your sales teams in various territories. Set a <span class="ml_highlighted_text">revenue target</span> for them to achieve before the end of the quarter. The team that achieves this target first wins the competition.</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">14. Upsell and Win:</span> Focus this contest around getting your reps to <span class="ml_highlighted_text">upsell to the existing customers.</span> The rep who makes the most significant upsell wins the contest.</p>
</div>

<br>

### **Contests for your Channel Sales Partners**

<div class="ml-margin-left10">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">15. Sales Olympics:</span> If you are working with channel sales partners, then conduct this contest to motivate them to achieve various sales targets. You can create this contest around any sales target of your choice like:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Selling a certain number of units of a new product in a quarter</li>
    <li>Achieving the quarterly revenue quota etc</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<br>

### **Contests for CRM Adoption**

<div class="ml-margin-left10">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">16. Blurry Vision? Put in your Contacts/ Hasta La Vista:</span> Create this contest around driving CRM adoption. Motivate your reps to fill in/add contacts, along with their current status, into the CRM regularly. At the end of every month, reward all the reps who have updated the logs every day without fail.</p>
</div>

<br>

### **Contests for Service Engineers**

<div class="ml-margin-left10">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">17. The Great Race:</span> This competition is for your service engineers who visit customers to install or service the products. Run this contest every day and assign a list of customers to each one of your service engineers. Encourage them to try and <span class="ml_highlighted_text">cover all the customers on their list</span> by the end of the day. At the end of every month, reward all the service engineers who have consistently covered all the customers on their list every day (with zero to minimum deviation).</p>
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">18. CX Champions League:</span> Run this as a monthly contest for your service engineers and reward the one who receives the <span class="ml_highlighted_text">highest number of positive feedbacks</span> from the customers.</p>
</div>

<!-- <div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Finalized a contest and good to go? Before you go ahead and run it, make sure that you create enthusiasm about the contest amongst your audience. Follow our <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">sales contest communication template</a> to effectively announce your contest to the participants.</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Once your contest is over, focus on presenting creative awards to the contest winners. Read  our article: <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">Creative Employee Recognition Award names.</a></div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Boost your sales by 60% and take your sales team’s productivity to the next level-- all through a single platform: <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">SmartWinnr’s Sales Contest.</a> Give it a try today!</div> -->

<br>

#### **Searching for free themes for your contest?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Contest Theme Generator</a></div> 

<br>

#### **Looking for a sales contest software that will run your contest automatically?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Explore <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Smartwinnr’s solutions</a> and learn how your sales contests can be enhanced into increasing productivity, decreasing agent attrition and reducing supervisory cost.</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Schedule a <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Free Demo</a> today to see how easy it is to use SmartWinnr to run your sales contests. </div>