---
title: 'Tips to Drive Cross-Selling'
og_title: 'Tips to Drive Cross-Selling'
description: Learn the best ways to drive cross-selling at your organization in order to earn more revenue and improve customer satisfaction and retention rate
og_description: Learn the best ways to drive cross-selling at your organization in order to earn more revenue and improve customer satisfaction and retention rate
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 114
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -114
slug: "/tips-to-drive-cross-selling"
featured_image: "/images/114.tips-to-drive-cross-selling.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-09-30T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Training", "Sales Contests"]
relatedBlogs : ["‘Work from Home Warriors’: Sales Training Game for Remote Sales Teams", "10 Most Effective Sales Pitch Ideas", "The 6 Buyer Personas and how to train your team to sell to them", "10 Effective Techniques to overcome Sales Objections", "Why continuous training is important in sales?", "5 Reasons to Use Video Coaching in Your Sales Process", "Ways to Challenge the Forgetting Curve", "Scenarios where Video Coaching is used commonly"]
---

### **What is Cross-selling?**

Cross-selling is, simply put, selling additional products and services to the customers along with the primary purchase that they make. 

Believe it or not, you may have experienced cross-selling on your last trip to the burger king-- “Would you like fries with that?” Your order taker suggests fries if you order a burger since those two food items are usually ordered together. This is a case of cross-selling. 

Here are some other examples of cross-selling:

* The suggestion of a printer when you buy a computer

* The suggestion of ink when you buy a printer

Cross-selling is not just beneficial to businesses who earn additional revenue, but also beneficial to the customers as they get to complement their initial purchase. Let’s see more benefits of cross-selling.

<br>

### **Benefit of Cross-selling**

* Cross-selling allows you to cultivate your existing customer base which is the easiest way to earn revenue. According to <a href="https://blog.hubspot.com/service/cross-selling" class="ml_custom_link" target="_blank">Hubspot</a>, the probability of selling to a new prospect is 5-20%, whilst the probability of selling to an existing customer is 60-70%. Also, it is 5-25x more expensive to acquire new customers than it is to grow existing customers.

* It helps in improving your revenue substantially. Even though, the price of related products can’t be compared to the price of the original purchase, if properly arranged, cross-selling can draw really substantial revenues. For instance, in 2006, Amazon reported that a tremendous 35% of the year’s sales came from cross-sales. 

* It improves the customer satisfaction rate as your customers get to save time by purchasing everything that they need from the same place. This provides them a lifetime value and turns them into loyal customers.

<br>
<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-top20 ml-margin-bottom20">
  Are you looking for a ready-made <span class="ml_text_bold">Sales Contest Template?</span> <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Click here</a> to design your own template for free, in just 3 clicks.
</div>

<br>

### **Ways to drive cross-selling**

#### **1. Provide Cross Product Training**

The first step to get your reps to excel in cross-selling is to equip them with a good knowledge of all the products that are to be cross-sold. 
For example, 

* A bank employee would need to sell life insurance policies to the customers along with the bank products. 

* A medical device sales rep who is primarily responsible for selling pacemakers should also have the knowledge of the ILR (implantable loop recorder). Chances are that the same doctor will be using both the products and it will provide a cross-selling opportunity. 

So, it’s crucial that you take a close look at your company’s product catalog and identify the products that can be sold together and provide cross-product training to your reps.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_title ml_text_bold">Here’s what the training should cover: </div>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <ul>
      <li>Drive product knowledge </li>
      <li>How to identify cross-selling opportunities during customer conversations? </li>
      <li>What is the right time to make cross-product suggestions</li>
      <li>What cross-product suggestions make sense in various purchase scenarios</li>
      <li>How to offer discounts on bundled products</li>
      <li>How to demonstrate the value that the additional product is going to add to the customers etc</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-bottom20">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Pro-Tip:</span> To identify customer’s interest to purchase additional products, your reps should catch signals during the conversation like: </p>
  <ul>
    <li>“I wish I could do X”</li>
    <li>“Next we want to try Y”</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<br>

#### **2. Reinforce the Training Regularly**

Once the formal training is done, you need to ensure that your reps retain the knowledge that they have gained in the training. In order to do that, you need to reinforce the training content regularly. Regular reinforcement ensures that your reps remember crucial sales information for a long time and are able to recall and use it effectively when they have to cross-sell.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_title ml_text_bold">Here is how you can ensure regular reinforcement of the training content: </div>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <ul>
      <li>Break down the training content into smaller chunks of information. Convert those chunks into <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-convert-a-powerpoint-presentation-into-microlearning-content/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">various interesting content formats like infographics, animated videos, storyboards,</a> etc (called microlearning feeds). This kind of smaller and visually appealing content makes it easier for your reps to quickly absorb it.  </li>
      <li>Deliver these microlearning feeds regularly to your reps on their mobile devices to reinforce crucial information. This way you will be able to provide mobile-enabled learning to your reps. This lets them access the training content anytime and anywhere they need it</li>
      <li>Conduct short quiz tests with about 5 questions once every week. This drives knowledge recall amongst your reps. And, helps you to assess their understanding of concepts and knowledge retention.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Learn how you can use <a class="ml_custom_link" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/" target="_blank">SmartWinnr’s Targeted Learning</a> to automate the process of reinforcing crucial training regularly to your sales team.</div>

<br>

#### **3. Make them Rehearse Cross-Selling**

It’s crucial to build practical knowledge around your sales reps’ theoretical knowledge. Because your reps might have a good knowledge of all the products that need to be cross sold. But to succeed in the real sales world they must practice their sales conversations. This is where video coaching comes in. 

Here’s how you can use video coaching: Present a cross-selling sales scenario to your reps and ask them to record a video responding to it. This gets your reps to record and practice their response several times until it comes out perfect. This way, you ensure that your team practices their sales conversations.

Once they submit their response-- their trainer or manager can evaluate the video-- give points and feedback according to the performance. They can also mark some best videos from the reps as “Top Videos” and share them with everyone. 

Finally, reward all the reps who scored highest in the coaching. Also, reward the ones whose video is marked as the “best video”. This way you provide a safe environment for your reps to practice and ace their sales conversations. It also fosters peer-to-peer learning.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_title ml_text_bold">Some example cross-selling scenarios that you can give for the  video coaching assignments: </div>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <ul>
      <li>A customer is going to buy a cell phone and is curious to know about its sound quality. Suggest buying our headset and explain how it enhances sound quality. </li>
      <li>A customer has recently purchased a subscription to our marketing tool. Persuade him to take the subscription to our CRM as well</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-bottom20">
  <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Pro-Tip:</span> To identify customer’s interest to purchase additional products, your reps should catch signals during the conversation like: </p>
  <ul>
    <li>If using appeals, make them more personal – “You Might Also Like These” instead of “We Recommend”;</li>
    <li>Use emotional verbs: need, want, etc. – “Need accumulators?” or “Want headphones?”</li>
    <li>Accompany cross-selling appeals with urgency notifications: “Only two items left” or “Offer ends soon”.</li>
  </ul>
</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Check out <a class="ml_custom_link" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-coaching/" target="_blank">SmartWinnr’s Video Coaching platform</a> which helps you to conduct effective video coaching and improve your team’s sales conversations.</div>

##### **Additional Reads:**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Learn about <a class="ml_custom_link" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/10-effective-techniques-to-overcome-sales-objections/" target="_blank">10 effective techniques that your team can use to overcome sales objections</a></div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a class="ml_custom_link" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/10-effective-techniques-to-overcome-sales-objections/" target="_blank">The 6 Buyer Personas and how to train your team to sell to them</a></div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a class="ml_custom_link" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/10-most-effective-sales-pitch-ideas/" target="_blank">10 Most Effective Sales Pitch Ideas that will Help your Team Ace their Selling</a></div>

<br>

#### **4. Incentivize Cross-Selling**

When the time comes to begin cross-selling make it worth-while for your reps as they make the extra effort of making additional revenue with each sale. A sales contest can help you do that by recognizing and incentivizing your reps’ hard work and performance

Run an individual or team-level sales contest and encourage your reps to raise the revenue by cross-selling. At the end of each month, select the top 3 reps who have made the largest amount of money through cross-sales. Reward them with exciting prizes. 

_Want to present creative incentives and awards to your contest winners? Get ideas from the blogs below:_

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10 ml_text_italic"><span class=""></span> <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ">23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated</a></div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10 ml_text_italic"><span class=""></span> <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ">Creative Employee Recognition Award Names</a></div>

_This way you will be able to create a competitive and fun work environment for your reps and motivate your them to actively cross-sell._