---
title: Why do you need a Sales Contest Software?
og_title: Why do you need a Sales Contest Software?
description: A sales contest is a popular concept amongst the sales leaders to infuse motivation into their sales teams and drive extraordinary sales results. Explore 10 reasons why you should adopt a sales contest tool to run effective sales contests.
og_description: A sales contest is a popular concept amongst the sales leaders to infuse motivation into their sales teams and drive extraordinary sales results. Explore 10 reasons why you should adopt a sales contest tool to run effective sales contests.
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 121
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -120
slug: "/why-do-you-need-a-sales-contest-software"
featured_image: "/images/blog-121/121.why-do-you-need-a-sales-contest-software.png"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-10-26T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests", "Sales Performance", "Sales Effectiveness"]
relatedBlogs : ["Finding the Right Sales Contest Software", "Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "25 Creative Sales Team Names","23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated","
Sales Contest Communication Template", "How to Launch a Sales Contest"]

---

Want to increase your new product sales?
Want to meet a huge revenue target in a short period of time?
Want to fill your sales pipeline with more leads?
Do you want to close more deals before the end of the quarter?
All of these objectives can be achieved through a perfectly designed sales contest. 
<br>
### **What is a Sales Contest?**

A sales contest is a short-term incentive program designed to motivate your sales personnel to accomplish specific sales objectives. 

To learn more about creating and running effective sales contests, refer to these blogs below: 
KPI gamification part 1 - How to select KPIs
Sales Contest Part 1: The Secrets of Running a Successful Sales Contest
Sales Contest Part 2: How to design Sales Contest for a New Product Launch
Sales Contest Part 3: 9 Proven Sales Contests that Drive Productivity
A sales contest is a powerful tool that helps to drive extraordinary sales results. Most likely, you are using Microsoft Excel to run these calculations. 


<br>






### **Tips to Drive Successful User Adoption**

#### **1. Involve the leadership team and get them to advocate the new system**

Any good behavior trickles down from the leadership team to the rest of the organization. So, start your new system roll-out by getting your leadership team involved in the roll-out process. We are not just talking about explaining the benefits of the new system to them. But actually give them a first-hand experience of the new system. Make them your early adopters.

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
  <p>It's important that you choose strong leaders from each department/ business unit as the early adopters. They should be able to persuasively communicate to their people why the adoption of the new system is worthwhile to:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Them,</li>
    <li>Their company,</li>
    <li>Their customers,</li>
    <li>And stakeholders</li>
  </ul>
  <p>This initiates a sense of trust amongst the users, as the first wave of communication comes from the leaders of their department.</p>
</div>

<br>

#### **2. Communicate for buy-in and engagement from employees**

After a higher-level communication from the leaders, it’s time for you to provide a detailed briefing on the new system to the users. This is second-level communication. Think of this as internal marketing where you have to gain user buy-in and engagement. 

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
  <p>Give them a first glimpse of the system and explain:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>What is in it for them?</li>
    <li>How does the new system enhance their work?</li>
    <li>Are they going to save time?</li>
    <li>Will they make more money?</li>
    <li>Will they have access to new and up-to-date information- information they really, really need?</li>
  </ul>
  <p>This initiates a sense of trust amongst the users, as the first wave of communication comes from the leaders of their department.</p>
</div>
  
<br>

#### **3. Run Training Sessions**

One of the biggest risks that jeopardizes the user adoption of the new system is the lack of sufficient and customized training. Of course, many vendors offer training options as a part of your technology purchase. However, most of that training is standardized off-the-shelf and not specific to your business processes.

You need to ensure that the new system training is specific to each department/ stakeholder group and the way they perform their work.

For example, in the case of a CRM system, a marketing professional should learn how to register and follow up leads. Whereas a salesperson needs to know how to create a sale and follow a set sales process.

If the new system training is not connected to each individual’s work, then they might see it as a waste of their time. And, this results in a significant decrease in user adoption.

Apart from that, here is what you need to accomplish in the training:

* Showcase and **demonstrate the new software.** Encourage more dialogue around implementation.

* **Walk your employees through each and every feature** of the new system. Demonstrate its practical application and how it makes a difference for them.

    <div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-bottom20">
      <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Pro-Tip:</span> If your new system holds many features, learning them all in one go can be difficult. In such a case, split your training into multiple training sessions and conduct them over a period of time. Start with the basics. And, when the basics are in place and well known, move on to more advanced features and processes.</p>
    </div>

* Create an environment where users can comfortably voice their questions and concerns. Take time and **patiently address all their queries**

* During the training **identify people who are most enthusiastic** about learning and using the new system. Set them up **as the internal champions.** Then, encourage them to **help** you in **getting the late adopters and laggard up to speed** quickly.

* A great way to get the users used to the new system is by **allowing them to test drive it** before they use it for their actual work. This gives them some time to get a hang of things.

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10 ml_text_italic">If you are implementing Salesforce CRM in your organization, here are the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-drive-end-user-adoption-in-salesforce/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">best practices to drive end-user adoption of Salesforce</a></div>

<br>

#### **4. Gamify your Adoption: The Plan that Works!**

There’s nothing quite like a friendly competition to drive the successful adoption of the new system. So include a fun and engaging contest in your user adoption strategy to get your folks engaged with the new technology. 

To gamify adoption, you can create the contest by:

* Pitting departments against one another

* Creating teams in the same department and having them compete against each other

* Or by allowing people to compete as individuals

Here is a quick overview of the new system adoption contest plan that you can follow:

<table class="table-bordered table-striped ml-margin-bottom10">
  <thead class="">
    <tr>
      <th class="padding5 ml_text_bold">No</th>
      <th class="padding5 ml_text_bold">Activity Type</th>
      <th class="padding5 ml_text_bold">Why does this work?</th>
      <th class="padding5 ml_text_bold">Points</th>
      <th class="padding5 ml_text_bold">Timeline/ Frequency</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody class="">
    <tr>
      <td class="padding5">1</td>
      <td class="padding5">Download/ install the new system and login</td>
      <td class="padding5">This activity encourages users to download/ install the new system and login into it before the timeline. Although this is a simple activity for the employees to complete, adding points to it motivates them to finish it quickly.</td>
      <td class="padding5">20 points on completion</td>
      <td class="padding5"><span class="ml_text_bold">Timeline</span>: 1 week</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="padding5">2</td>
      <td class="padding5">Complete a simple activity</td>
      <td class="padding5">
        <p>Choose an activity that can be completed quickly. It can be the starting point of using the application. </p>
        <p>For a CRM, it could be, to create the 1st opportunity.</p>
        <p>For an HRMS system, it could be filling out employment details</p>
      </td>
      <td class="padding5">30 points on completion</td>
      <td class="padding5"><span class="ml_text_bold">Timeline</span>: 1 week</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="padding5">3</td>
      <td class="padding5">Pulse Survey</td>
      <td class="padding5">Conduct surveys once in a while to capture the feedback of users' experience with the new system</td>
      <td class="padding5">10 points on completion</td>
      <td class="padding5"><span class="ml_text_bold">Frequency</span>: Once in 3 months</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="padding5">4</td>
      <td class="padding5">Microlearning Feeds</td>
      <td class="padding5">Send <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-convert-a-powerpoint-presentation-into-microlearning-content/#what-is-microlearning" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">microlearning feeds</a> twice a week to the users to reinforce new system training. These should be personalized by business function and role. This helps the users remember all the features of the new system and their usage for a longer time. </td>
      <td class="padding5"></td>
      <td class="padding5"><span class="ml_text_bold">Frequency</span>: Twice a week</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td class="padding5">5</td>
      <td class="padding5">Quizzes</td>
      <td class="padding5">Send short <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/gamified-assessments/#what-is-a-gamified-assessment" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">quiz tests</a> with 5 questions once every week to help your users recall the new system information. This also helps you to access their knowledge retention</td>
      <td class="padding5">5 points per correct answer</td>
      <td class="padding5"><span class="ml_text_bold">Frequency</span>: Once a week</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<br>

#### **Awards for the Contest Winners:**

At the end of each month, add up the scores of each individual from all the activities. Determine the winners and reward them with exciting prizes. 

Here are some award ideas for the top performers of this contest:

* **Download Champs:** Present this award to the first team that achieves 100% download and login

* **Fast Starter:** Present this award to the first person who completes all the activities

* **Lead by Example:** This award goes to the first team to complete all the activities

<br>

#### **For more creative employee award and incentive ideas, check out the blogs below:**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Creative Employee Recognition Award Names</a></div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated</a></div>

<br>

#### **Looking to implement a contest software for your teams?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/finding-the-right-sales-contest-software/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Learn</a> about the 9 specific features that you need to look out for in a contest software. Also, find out what contest software tools are trending in the market right now.</div> 

<br>

#### **SmartWinnr: A gamified platform to drive end-user adoption of the new system successfully**

SmartWinnr’s AI-powered gamification platform helps you to successfully drive the new system adoption at various stages at your organization. You can use this one single platform to drive new system communication, new system training, and gamified adoption. This helps you achieve a highly effective end-user adoption.

To explore more, book a <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">free demo</a> with us today!