---
title: KPIs to track in the Insurance Industries
og_title: KPIs to track in the Insurance Industries
description: Learn about the crucial sales KPIs that you need to track as an insurance company to achieve extraordinary sales results
og_description: Learn about the crucial sales KPIs that you need to track as an insurance company to achieve extraordinary sales results
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 134
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -134
slug: "kpi-to-track-in-the-insurance-industries"
featured_image: "/images/134.kpi-to-track-in-the-insurance-industries.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-12-19T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests", "KPI"]
relatedBlogs : [
"7 Sales Contest Ideas for Insurance Agents",
"23 Sales Contest Names for Insurance",
"KPI Gamification Part 1 - How to Select KPIs - SmartWinnr",
"Sales Contest Part 3: 9 Proven Sales Contests that Drive Productivity",
"Top 20 Sales Contest Names",
"25 Creative Sales Team Names",
"23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated",
"Sales Contest Communication Template",
"Creative Employee Recognition Award Names"
]

---

An old saying goes “If you can’t measure it, you can’t improve it”. This holds absolutely true for any business. Because only by tracking crucial business metrics, you will be able to

* Identify where you can make the easiest and most impactful improvements

* And, determine a course of action to take your business to the next level

This article focuses on the important metrics that insurance companies should measure to improve their sales effectiveness. You can create smaller or longer running sales contests around these metrics. This helps in effectively motivating your agents to perform well in these metrics.

For each of the metrics here, we have answered the following questions:

* About the metric

* How frequently you should measure it?

* What target can you set for it

* How to assign points and/ or declare winners upon achieving the targets

<br>

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-top20 ml-margin-bottom20">
  Are you looking for a ready-made <span class="ml_text_bold">Sales Contest Template?</span> <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Click here</a> to design your own template for free, in just 3 clicks.
</div>

<br>

### **1. Coverage**
**About the metric:** This metric measures the number of customer meetings held by each agent every day 

**Target:** Successfully meet 3 customers daily

**Frequency of measuring:** Daily. Establish a live leaderboard to keep a track of the progress of each agent

**Points:** 5 points per customer meeting

<br>

### **2. Number of referrals**
**About the metric:** This measures the number of new client referrals that each agent earns from the existing clients.

**Target:** Give a target of bringing in at least 5 referrals each day

**Frequency of measuring:** Daily

**Points:** 5 points per referral

<br>

### **3. Number of policies sold**

**About the metric:** This measures the number of units of a particular policy sold by each agent

**Target:** Set a target for each agent to sell 50 policies each month. Track their progress on a live leaderboard

**Frequency of measuring:** Measure this at the end of every month

**Points:** 50 points per policy sold

**Winner:** At the end of each month, reward the agent who successfully sold 50 or more policies

<br>

### **4. Quote Rate**

**About the metric:** The quote rate is the most fundamental insurance KPI that can be used to gauge staff performance. The quote rate measures how many quotes an agent has been able to provide compared to the number of leads she has contacted.

**Target:** Give a target to send quotes to at least 50% of the contacted leads

**Frequency of measuring:** Measure quote rate at the end of every month

**Points:** 20 points per quote sent. Have a live leaderboard to keep track of each agents’ progress.

**Winner:** At the end of each month, reward the reps who sends the highest number of quotes

<br>

### **5. Percentage Pending**

**About the metric:** This is a typical insurance KPI used to evaluate how efficiently various teams in your company are working together. This measures the percentage of policies pending approval when compared to the total number of policies established. 

**Target:** This percentage has to be as low as possible. A high percentage indicates a bottleneck in a team’s workflow.

**Frequency of measuring:** Twice a month. Once every 15 days.

**Winner:** The team with the lowest pending approval percentage wins

<br>

### **6. Renewal or Retention**

**About the metric:** This measures the number of policies that the agents are able to successfully renew after the initial term expires

**Target:** No specific target but encourage the agents to renew as many policies as they can

**Frequency of measuring:** Monthly

**Points:** 20 points per renewed policy

**Winner:** The winner will be the agent who successfully renews more number of policies by the end of the month

<br>

### **7. Sales/ New Business**

**About the metric:** This metric tracks the number of new insurance policies sold over a period of time. This can be tracked by the product line and/or by the agent.

**Target:** Sell 2 policies weekly

**Frequency of measuring:** At the end of every week

**Points:** 50 points per policy sold

**Winner:** The winner will be the agent with the highest score

<br>

### **8. Size of the Policy Premium**

**About the metric:** This metric assigns points based on the size of the policy premium sold

**Target:** No target in specific but encourage the agents to sell higher-level policies and earn more points

**Frequency of measuring:** Monthly

**Points:**

* Policy premium less than $10k gives 15 points

* Policy premium between $10k to $20k gives 20 points

* Policy premium between $20k to $30k gives 30 points

* Policy premium more than $30k gives 40 points

**Winner:** At the end of each month, sum up the points earned by each agent. Declare the one with the highest total score, as the winner.

<br>

### **9. Revenue Target**

**About the metric:** This is used to see if the individual agents or teams are able to achieve their quarterly or annual revenue targets

**Target:** Set the revenue amount that you want to achieve in a quarter as the target

**Frequency of measuring:** Measure at the end of every quarter 

**Winner:** Declare the individual or the team that achieves the revenue target first as the winner

<br>

### **10. Premium collection**

**About the metric:** Some customers might not pay their insurance premium on-time. In such a case, you want your agents to reach out to those customers and convince them to pay their premium. This metric keeps a track of the numbers of customers from whom the agents could successfully collect the premium amount. 

**Target:** Encourage the agents to get premiums from as many customers as they can

**Frequency of measuring:** Weekly

**Points:** 10 points per premium paid

**Winner:** The agent who successfully convinces more number of customer to pay their premium

<br>

### **11. Bind Rate**

**About the metric:** The bind rate insurance KPI is useful as it measures the individual performance of staff. It shows who is skilled enough to close deals. The bind rate is the percentage of quotes that are converted into legally binding policies.

**Target:** The agents should aim to achieve a higher bind rate

**Frequency of measuring:** Monthly

**Points:** 20 points per deal closed

**Winner:** Whoever has the highest bind rate by the end of a month

<br>

### **12. Underwriting Speed**

**About the metric:** This is a team metric. It keeps a track of the number of days within which the underwriting decision of each policy claim is made. Ideally, it should be done as defined by the company’s service level agreement

**Target:** Within the time defined by SLA

**Frequency of measuring:** End of every month

**Winner:** Reward the team that has underwritten all or most of the claims assigned to them before the deadline

<br>

## **Bancassurance KPIs**

### **13. Branch Activation**

**About the metric:**  This measures the number of bank branches activated every week

**Target:** Give a target to activate at least one branch in a week

**Frequency of measuring:** Every week

**Points:** 20 points per activation

**Winner:** At the end of every month, reward the agents who have consistently activated at least one branch every week without fail.

<br>

### **14. Branch Coverage**

**About the metric:** This metric measures the number of customers the bank employees have reached out to in order to sell insurance policies

**Target:** Contact 50 customers daily

**Frequency of measuring:** Every day

**Points:** 5 points per customer contacted

**Winner:** The winners will be the reps who successfully contact 50 customers or more in a day

<br>

### **15. Lead Generation**

**About the metric:** This metric tracks the number of leads that the bank employees have successfully entered into the sales pipeline

**Target:** Give a target to enter 50% of the contacted leads into the sales pipeline

**Frequency of measuring:** Daily

**Points:** 10 points per lead entered into the sales pipeline

**Winners:** The agents who meet or exceed the lead generation target

<br>

### **16. Total Revenue Generated**

**About the metric:** This metric measures the total revenue generated by each bank branch

**Target:** Based on your business goals, set an achievable quarterly revenue target for them

**Frequency:** At the end of every quarter

**Winner:** Reward the branch that is first to meet or exceed its quarterly revenue target

<br>

### **17. Renewal Percentage**

**About the metric:** This measures the percentage of policies that have been successfully renewed by the bank employees after the initial term has expired. 

**Target:** No specific target. The agents should aim to renew as many expired policies as they can.

**Frequency of measuring:** Monthly

**Points:** 20 points for each renewed policy

**Winner:** The winner will be the agent who renews more number of expired policies than everyone else

<br>


### **Want to know how to gamify your KPIs?**

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/kpi-gamification-how-to-select-kpis/" target="_blank">Learn how to select KPIs and gamify them </a>

### **Looking for insurance sales contest Ideas?**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contests-for-the-insurance-agents/" target="_blank"> 7 Sales Contest Ideas for Insurance Agents</a>

### **Looking for insurance sales contest names?**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/23-sales-contest-names-for-insurance/" target="_blank"> 23 Sales Contest Names for Insurance</a>


### **Learn how SmartWinnr helps insurance companies to run sales training programs and sales contests**
<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/insurance/" target="_blank"> SmartWinnr for insurance</a>

