---
title: Strategic vs Tactical planning in Sales
og_title: Strategic vs Tactical planning in Sales
description: Strategic planning and tactical planning in sales are the two sides of the same coin. Both are very distinct yet inseparable. Learn how these two planning strategies help your business to consistently perform well and achieve profitable growth
og_description: Strategic planning and tactical planning in sales are the two sides of the same coin. Both are very distinct yet inseparable. Learn how these two planning strategies help your business to consistently perform well and achieve profitable growth
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 140
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -140
slug: "strategic-versus-tactical-planning-in-sales"
featured_image: "/images/140.strategic-versus-tactical-planning-in-sales.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2021-02-17T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Effectiveness"]
relatedBlogs : [
"6 Trends that Sales Experts are predicting for 2021",
"How Sales Enablement can drive revenue growth in 2021?",
"How to Build a Successful Sales Environment",
"Best Practices to Design your Sales Incentive Plan",
"Best practices to Implement a Sales Incentive Plan",
"How Gamification can help to take your Incentive Plan to a whole new level",
"How to Create a Remote Sales Playbook?",
"4 Best Practices to have a Perfect Sales Enablement Process",
"Top 10 CEOs who started as Sales Reps"
]
---
Each and every goal that you set requires planning to achieve it. Without clearly defined steps, it can be very difficult to achieve your goals.

Similarly, a lot of planning goes into sales as well. A good sales plan helps in setting your sales team up for success. 

Usually, a sales plan encompasses two types of planning: 

* Strategic planning 

* And Tactical planning

<br>

### **Definition of Strategic Planning and Tactical Planning**

Strategic planning lays out the long-term, broad goals that a business wants to achieve. And tactical planning outlines the short-term steps and actions that should be taken to achieve the goals described in the strategic plan.

Strategic planning typically occurs at the beginning of a year, quarter, or month. The objectives set in the strategic plan are more general and evaluated over a longer period of time. The strategic plans should be reviewed at least once every quarter.

Tactical planning occurs after the strategic plan is outlined. Since tactical planning has short-term and specific goals, it can be examined on a more frequent basis.

Consider the below high-level example to understand the difference between the two types of planning.

<br>

### **High-level Examples of Strategic planning Vs Tactical planning**

Let's take the example of a hypothetical company mulling over different strategies to improve different aspects of its sales operations.

<br>

### **Sales Recruitment**

* **Strategy:** We want to develop repeatable evaluation criteria for hiring the right salespeople

* **Tactics:** We will pin down the specific qualities the company wants out of its salespeople, draft appropriate questions to shed light on those qualities, and train recruiters to conduct interviews based on those key tenets.

<br>

### **Sales and Marketing Collaboration**

* **Strategy:** We want to improve sales and marketing alignment.

* **Tactics:** We will clearly define the qualities that marketing needs to find to consider a lead as an SQL. Encourage <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/4-best-practices-to-have-a-perfect-sales-enablement-process/#sales-enablement-best-practices" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> collaboration between the sales and marketing departments </a> on the creation of sales content. Hold interdepartmental syncs to address results and planned campaigns.

<br>

### **Technological Infrastructure**

* **Strategic:** We want to build a more sound technological foundation for our sales operations.

* **Tactics:** We will adopt a CRM, incorporate a conversational intelligence tool for improving sales calls, and pursue more <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> virtual sales enablement resources.</a>

Now, we are going to see how strategic and tactical planning plays out in creating a good sales plan.

<br>

### **Sales Plan = Strategic Planning + Tactical Planning**

A sales plan encompasses both strategic and tactical planning. It outlines the broad goals your sales team and reps should strive for, and it creates an action plan to reach them. 

Here is a detailed explanation of how strategic and tactical planning contributes to an organization’s overarching sales strategy. 

<br>

### **Developing Strategy in the Sales Plan**

The strategic planning sheds light on the organization’s mission, objectives, and future goals. <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-build-a-successful-sales-environment/#2-set-clear-goals-and-expectations-from-top-to-bottom" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> Managers, VPs, and executives typically create strategic plans </a> for an organization

Here are the key components to be included in a strategic plan:

**The mission and background of the business:** Where do you currently stand? And where do you want to be in the future?

**Goals and objectives:** What is it that you would like to achieve?

**Directly responsible individuals (DRIs):** Who are the people who are responsible for the goals?

<br>

### **Developing Tactics in the Sales Plan**

Once you have a strategic plan that outlines general goals and objectives, then go ahead and develop the tactical plan. A tactical plan describes the steps and actions that must be taken to achieve the goals described in the strategic plan.

Here are a few key elements to consider when developing your tactical plan:

* What is the timeline for achieving the goals?

* Are there tools or resources that are necessary to accomplish these objectives?

* What specific actions should be taken to achieve the intended outcome?

Now that we have a good understanding of the strategic and tactical planning, let’s see what they look like in practice


<br>

### **Examples of Strategic and Tactical Planning in a Sales Plan**

While strategic and tactical plans can vary by company or industry, there are some that are common to many sales organizations and teams. We have listed them down below:

#### **Strategy: Fill the pipeline with more leads over the next two weeks**

**Tactics to achieve this strategy:**

* Spend an hour prospecting each day

* Leverage social selling and join 5 LinkedIn Groups that your prospects belong to

* Attend an industry networking event

* Conduct a webinar for the customers and prospects

#### **Strategy: Close more deals each month**

**Tactics to achieve this strategy:**

* Provide the reps with a <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-training-and-communication-playbook-for-new-product-launch/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">hands-on product training</a> 

* Set a goal for each rep to schedule at least three demos with prospects this quarter.

* <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-design-your-sales-incentive-plan/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Create an incentive</a> for those that close most deals in a month


<h4><b>Strategy: Hire 20 entry-level sales representatives by the end of the Q1</b></h4>

<p class="ml-margin-top10"><b>Tactics to achieve this strategy:</b></p>

* Create a hiring profile that candidates should meet

* Develop a LinkedIn outreach campaign to find and attract new talent

* Attend career fairs at 15 local universities

<br>

### **Conclusion**

Make sure that you implement both strategic and tactical planning together whenever you plan any initiative at your organization. With a solid strategic plan and a detailed tactical plan, you'll be well-equipped to achieve your goals and generate greater results. 

<br><br>

#### **How to build a successful sales environment?**

Want to establish a happy, passionate, and successful sales environment at your organization?
<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-build-a-successful-sales-environment/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">How to Build a Successful Sales Environment </a>

<br>

#### **Want to know where sales is headed in 2021?**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/6-trends-that-sales-experts-are-predicting-for-2021/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> 6 Trends that Sales Experts are predicting for 2021</a>

<br>

#### **Learn how to create and implement a perfect sales incentive plan at your organization**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-design-your-sales-incentive-plan/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> Best Practices to Design your Sales Incentive Plan</a>

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-implement-a-sales-incentive-plan/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> Best practices to Implement a Sales Incentive Plan</a>

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/how-gamification-can-help-to-take-your-incentive-plan-to-a-whole-new-level/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link"> How Gamification can help to take your Incentive Plan to a whole new level</a>

<br>

#### **Learn how sales enablement evolved in 2020 and how to plan your sales enablement in 2021**

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-enablement-part-1-how-sales-enablement-shifted-in-2020/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">How Sales Enablement shifted in 2020</a>

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-enablement-part-2-the-sales-enablement-2021-yearly-planning-guide/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">The Sales Enablement 2021 Yearly Planning Guide</a>
