---
title: Collect Customer Insights on your Brand and Products
og_title: Collect Customer Insights on your Brand and Products
description: Customer insights survey plays a significant role in improving the overall experience one has with your brand, service, and representatives. This blog gives you 23 questions that you can include in your customer insights survey to extract valuable insights from it
og_description: Customer insights survey plays a significant role in improving the overall experience one has with your brand, service, and representatives. This blog gives you 23 questions that you can include in your customer insights survey to extract valuable insights from it
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 145
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -145
slug: "customers-feedback-survey-to-collect-customer-insights-on-your-brand-and-products"
featured_image: "/images/145.customers-feedback-survey-to-collect-customer-insights-on-your-brand-and-products.jpeg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2021-03-25T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: [ "Marketing", "Survey", "Customer Insights"]
relatedBlogs : [
"Survey Questions to ask your Sales Team before a New Product Launch Training",
"5 Best Ways to Improve your Customer Satisfaction Survey Rate",
"Best Ways to Capture Feedback from the customers",
"6 Trends that Sales Experts are predicting for 2021",
"Strategic vs Tactical planning in Sales"
]
---
At SmartWinnr we strongly believe that “what is best for the customers is best for the business”.

  

But how do you know what is best for your customers? You have to ask them

  

Customer surveys are the most direct way to capture your customers’ insights about,

-   Your brand value
    
-   Your products and their features
    
-   The strengths and weaknesses of your products and services
    
-   The customers’ experience of doing business with you
    

  

These insights help you to,

-   Think long-term and see the bigger picture
    
-   Identify potential issues before they become negative experiences
    
-   Course correct actions in a timely manner
    
-   Identify new opportunities
    
-   And engage with your customers effectively
    

  

In this blog, we have listed down 24 customer survey questions that you can use to effectively <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/6-buyer-personas-and-how-to-train-your-team-to-sell/"  target="_blank">capture your customers’ insights</a> on various aspects of your business.

<br>

## **Questions to ask your new customers**

#### **1. Thank you for purchasing our [product name]! How are you planning to use the [product or service]?**
    

**Why ask this question:**  Ask this question in a post-purchase survey to get a better view of the customer’s plans for your product. This will give you some insights into why people are <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/re-imagined-product-launch/"  target="_blank">purchasing your products or services</a>, especially to identify niche use cases that you could leverage further.

#### **2. Where did you first hear about the [product name]?**
    

**Why ask this question:** To find out if your customers first came to know about your product from

-   A friend
    
-   Or on a podcast
    
-   Or on social media channels
    
-   Or from any other source
    

  

This lets you understand which of your marketing channels or approaches are creating real value for you. You can then invest and leverage more of those channels.

#### **3. What convinced you to buy the product?**
    

**Why ask this question:** To find out what were the hooks that persuaded your customers to take the plunge? Try to understand these driving forces, and then replicate and emphasize them.

#### **4. Why did you choose to use our [product or service] over other options?**
    

**Why ask this question:** This question lets you understand what sets you apart from your competitors. You will be able to gauge how you’re competing with others in your customers’ minds.

  

It helps you figure out if the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-gather-competitive-intelligence-from-the-field/"  target="_blank">differentiating factor</a> is the price, the service, or the solution offered. With this question, you may even discover a competitive advantage you were not aware of.

#### **5. How would you describe your buying experience?**
    

1.  Very simple
    
2.  A bit difficult
    
3.  Very difficult
    

  

**Why ask this question:** If your buying process is too confusing or onerous, it can drive your potential customers away. So ask this question to each one of your new customers and find out how their buying experience was. Identify if there are any areas of improvement and take corrective measures.

#### **6. Did you use a competitor’s product before?**
    

**Why ask this question:** Find out if the customers have used any of your competitors’ products before shifting to your product. If a customer has indeed used your competitor’s product before, then dig in deep and find out what challenges did they face with their previous solution and why they have decided to replace it.

  

This gives you an idea about the expectations with which a customer has adopted your product

<br>

## **Questions to find out how your customers perceive your brand and product**

#### **7. What is the first thing that comes to your mind when you think of [brand name]?**
    

**Why ask this question:** The answer to this question lets you <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-ways-to-capture-feedback-from-the-customers/"  target="_blank">understand how customers perceive</a> your product and brand. Here you want to see more positive responses. In case you get more negative answers then there is a problem that you need to identify and fix ASAP.

#### **8. What problems are you solving or what goals are you achieving with this product?**
    

Why ask this question? This question lets you understand,

-   What issues is your product solving for your customers?
    
-   What pain points is it addressing?
    
-   Or what goals is it helping them to reach?
    

  

Sometimes you may even uncover certain use cases of your product that you might not even be aware of

#### **9. On a scale of 1-10, how would you rate [product name]? Also, we would appreciate it if you could give any comments or explanation of your rating**
    

Why ask this question?  This will give you an idea about how satisfied your customers are with your product.

  

It is crucial that you understand your customers’ overall experience with your product. This information helps you to plan the roadmap for product development and also address any concern before it becomes an issue.

<br>

## **Questions to uncover customer’s insights on your product’s features**

#### **10. What is your favorite feature or portion of the [product name]?**
    

**Why ask this question:** With this question, you will be able to understand,

-   What your customers admire the most in your product
    
-   What they see as the highlights in your product
    

  

If a lot of customers say that a particular feature is their favorite then that becomes the key feature of your product. You will then be able to <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/10-most-effective-sales-pitch-ideas/"  target="_blank">market or advertise your product</a> by highlighting that key feature.

#### **11. Which feature or portion of our product is your least favorite and why?**
    

**Why ask this question:** This lets you understand the feature/s with which your customers are dissatisfied and why. This information helps you to improve your product according to their customers’ preferences.

#### **12. What would you change or improve in the product if you could?**
    

**Why ask this question:** To find out what improvements your customers would like to see in the product

  

Product development is truly valuable when it meets the expectations of the customers. The information that you get from this question will help you make improvements to your product in such a way that it appeals to your customers.

#### **13. On a scale of 1-10, how easy did you think the [product name] was to use?**
    

**Why ask this question:** If a product is difficult to navigate/ use/ operate, it makes the customers frustrated. And frustrated customers do not come back. So, with this question gauge the user-friendliness of your product and make improvements if necessary.

<br>

## **Questions to gauge customers’ experience**

#### **14. Please rate our customer service on a scale of 1-10**
    

**Why ask this question:** The thing that your customers value the most after your product is your customer service. Only by providing excellent customer service, you can <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/6-ways-to-motivate-your-customer-service-reps/"  target="_blank">ensure a good customer experience</a>. So ask this question to your customers and understand to what extent was your customer service satisfactory to them.

#### **15. Were your expectations met, unmet, or exceeded?**
    

**Why ask this question:** With this question, you will be able to understand to what extent you have been successful in meeting the expectations of your customers. This is extremely crucial because the success of your business solely depends on meeting or exceeding your customers’ expectations and making them happy.

#### **16. What changed for you after you started using [your product]?**
    

**Why ask this question:** Use this question to find out what positive (or negative) changes your product has brought about in your customers’ life. This helps you understand the value that you are creating for your customers.

#### **17. I wish that I could also use [product name] for?**

**Why ask this question:** To understand what else do your customers wish to use your product for. The answers to this question might reveal new opportunities for you about which you were not even aware.

<br>

## **Questions to uncover gaps in your product**

<h4><b>18. What is that one feature or area where you think we can improve?</b></h4>
    
<b>Why ask this question:</b> Ask this question to identify the areas of improvement in your product

<br>

## **Questions about your customers’ loyalty towards your company and brand**

<span class="ml-font24" style="font-size:20px !important" ><b>19. Do you see yourself <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/tips-to-drive-cross-selling/" class="ml_custom_link ml-font24"  target="_blank">continuing to do business</a> with us?</b></span>
    

**Why ask this question:** Test and see if you get maximum positive responses to this question. If you received more negative responses from your customer base then there is a problem that you need to identify and fix ASAP

#### **20. How likely are you to recommend our product to others?**

**Why ask this question:** Studies have shown that customers’ willingness or reluctance to recommend your product to their friends and family is an excellent indicator of their level of satisfaction.

Ask customers to rank, on a scale of 0-10, how likely they are to recommend your products. This information will allow you to calculate your customers’ Net Promoter Score

  <br>

## **Questions on your product’s pricing**

#### **21. What do you think of the price of the [product name]?**

1.  Too Expensive
    
2.  Reasonable
    
3.  Very Affordable    

**Why ask this question:** This question helps you understand how the customers perceive the price of your product


#### **22. If you were given a choice to decide the price of the product, how much would you decide to pay?**
    
**Why ask this question:** This lets you understand the exact amount that customers are willing to pay for your product

#### **23. Do you think our product was worth your investment?**
    

1.  Yes
    
2.  No
    

**Why ask this question:** To understand if your customers are getting their desired ROI from your product

<br>


<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>
        <h3><b>A Summary of all the Customer Survey Questions</b></h3>
       <p> <b>Questions to ask your new customers </b></p>
        <ol type="1" class="ml-margin-left10">
        <li> Thank you for purchasing our [product name]! How are you planning to use the [product or service]?</li>          
        <li> Where did you first hear about the [product name]?</li>       
        <li>  What convinced you to buy the product? </li>        
        <li> Why did you choose to use our [product or service] over other options? </li>       
        <li>  How would you describe your buying experience?</li>       
        <li> Did you use a competitor’s product before?</li> 
        </ol>
        <br>
        <p><b>Questions to find out how your customers perceive your brand and product</b></p>
      <ol start="7" class="ml-margin-left10">
         <li> What is the first thing that comes to your mind when you think of [brand name]?  </li>           
        <li> What problems are you solving or what goals are you achieving with this product?   </li>         
        <li> On a scale of 1-10, how would you rate the [product name]? Also, we would appreciate it if you could give any comments or explanation of your rating</li> 
        </ol>
    <br>
       <p><b> Questions to uncover customer’s insights on your product’s features</b></p>
        <ol start="10" class="ml-margin-left10">
          <li>  What is your favorite feature or portion of the [product name]?        </li>   
          <li>  Which feature or portion of our product is your least favorite and why?  </li>          
          <li>  What would you change or improve in the product if you could?          </li> 
        <li> On a scale of 1-10, how easy did you think the [product name] was to use?    </li>       
        </ol>
          <br>
        <p><b> Questions on customers’ experience</b></p>
       <ol start="14" class="ml-margin-left10">
         <li>Please rate our customer service on a scale of 1-10</li>
        <li> Were your expectations met, unmet, or exceeded?</li>
         <li> What changed for you after you started using [your product]?</li>
        <li> I wish that I could also use [product name] for?</li>
        </ol>
        <br>
        <p><b> Questions to uncover gaps in your product</b></p>
        <ol start="18" class="ml-margin-left10">
        <li> What is that one feature or area where you think we can improve?</li>
        </ol>
         <br>
        <p><b>Questions about your customers’ loyalty towards your company and brand</b></p>
        <ol start="19" class="ml-margin-left10">
          <li> Do you see yourself continuing to do business with us?</li>
          <li> How likely are you to recommend our product to others?</li>
        </ol>
         <br>
       <p><b> Questions on the pricing of your product</b></p>
        <ol start="21" class="ml-margin-left10">
         <li> What do you think of the price of the [product name]?</li>
         <li> If you were given a choice to decide the price of the product, how much would you decide to pay?</li>
         <li> Do you think our product was worth your investment?
          <ol type="a">
            <li> Yes  </li>
             <li>  No</li>
          </ol>
         </li>
        </ol>          
      </p>
            
</div>
</div>

<br>

### **Check out more resources on the best ways to survey the customer base and capture feedback**

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/5-best-ways-to-improve-your-customer-satisfaction-survey-rate/"  target="_blank">5 Best Ways to Improve your Customer Satisfaction Survey Rate</a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-ways-to-capture-feedback-from-the-customers/"  target="_blank">Best Ways to Capture Feedback from the customers</a>

<br>

### **Want to conduct a pre-training survey for your sales team before they start their new product launch training?**

 <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/survey-questions-to-ask-your-sales-team-before-new-product-launch-training/"  target="_blank">Survey Questions to ask your Sales Team before a New Product Launch Training</a>