---
title: 'Creative Employee Recognition Award Names for Insurance'
og_title: 'Creative Employee Recognition Award Names for Insurance'
description: An extensive list of creative employee recognition award names for the Insurance industry
og_description: An extensive list of creative employee recognition award names for the Insurance industry
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 192
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -192
slug: "creative-employee-recognition-award-names-for-insurance"
featured_image: "/images/blog-192/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: true
date: '2021-09-18T09:30:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contest"]  
relatedBlogs : ["Automate your Sales Contests", "How to Launch a Sales Contest", "25 Creative Sales Team Names", "Sales Contest Communication Template", "Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated"]

---

We all feel nice when our hard work pays off. Receiving an award for that hard work makes us feel recognised and wanted in an organization. An employee receiving an “Employee of the Month” award in front of his/her peers will boost their morale and self-confidence.

Employees with boosted self-confidence will eventually feel good about themselves and their workspace. This, in turn, creates a positive work environment, inspires everyone to work more efficiently and be productive at their work.

In this blog post, we’ve curated some cool, fun and interesting award names for the employees working in the Insurance sector. Check’em out below

\
\

### **Awards for The Top Performer**

**1. Shoot For The Stars Aim for The Moon:** This award goes to the employees who are always aiming for big and want to achieve more

**2. The conqueror of premium:** Give this award to the employee whose performance is top-notch

**3. The chosen one:** Award this title to the employee who’s best at customer satisfaction

**4. The Gold Chaser:** Give this award to the employee who is best at chasing valuable leads

**5. Super insurer:** Give this award to the employee who is an expert in successfully selling all types of insurance products

**6. High Aimer:** Give this award to the employees who have the skill of successfully hitting any big sales target

**7. Man On the Moon:** Give this award to the employee who is extremely talented and gives an outstanding performance.

**8. Lord of Premiums:** Award this to the employee who has successfully brought the customers who haven’t paid their premium on time to pay it immediately

\
\

### **Awards for The Hard-Working Employees**

**9. The above and beyond insurer:** Give this award to the employees who always go beyond their duty to achieve the goal

**10. The Go-Getter:** Give this award to the employee who is focused on getting the toughest of the tough tasks done anyhow

**11. Ultimate Agent:** Award this to that insurance agent who contributes to every success

**12. Before Time:** Give this award to the employee who finishes their task much before the deadline

**13. The Gutsy One:** Award this title to the person who operates with patience and courage and is never scared of pursuing big opportunities.

\
\

### **Awards for Good Peer-to-peer collaboration and Team-work**

**14. League of Best Insurers:** Award this title to the team which has set a good example of success and has inspired others by their hard work and dedication.

**15. The Ultimate Revival Force:** Give this title to the team who are experts in reinstating lapsed policies

**16. Champions On The Rescue:** Give this award to the team whose excellent teamwork has brought you mind-blowing results

**17. Descendants of Alexander:** Just like Alexander The Great. This team is strong, wise and knows well what they have to do to something

\
\

### **Awards for Leadership Roles**

**18. Leader On The Way:** This award goes to the manager who always sets a good example for his team to follow

**19. The Brain Behind The Win:** Give this award to the manager who has extraordinary leadership skills and operates like a true leader pushing agents to achieve more

**20. Sailor With No Fear:** Give this award to the manager who knows how to handle tricky situations and overcome them

**21. Respect Earned:** Give this award to the manager who is hugely respected by his team for his knowledge, skills, passion and dedication towards his work. 

**22. The Hard Working Titan:** Give this award to the person who became a manager in a very short period with her hard work and dedication.
 
**23. The One You Can Bet On:** This award goes to the manager whose managerial skills are out of the ordinary but produce great results

\
\

### **Awards For Good Knowledge And Expertise**

**24. Master Of Product:** Give this award to the employee who has an amazing knowledge of all your insurance policies

**25. The Ultimate Product Champion:** Give this award to the employee who is well versed in all the products and the best ways to sell each one of them. 

**26. Clients Favorite:** Give this award to the employee who has amazing customer problem-solving skills and can sell a product with ease. 

\
\

### **Awards For New Hires**

**27. The Budding Hero:** This award goes to the most sincere new hires who have grasped a lot of skills quickly during their first month

**28. Future Hope:** Give this award to the new hires who are promising and have shown sincere interest in the product

**29. Quick Learner:** Give this award to the new hire who can work at par with the experienced employees in a short time

**30. Knowledgeable Beginner:** Give this to the new hires who even after being new can take decisions on their own and can produce good results. 

\
\

### Learn how SmartWinnr is helping the top insurance to drive their sales to success

[SmartWinnr for insurance](https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/insurance/)

\
\

### What are Various KPIs that should be tracking in Insurance? Learn from this blog below:

[KPIs to track in the Insurance Industries](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/kpi-to-track-in-the-insurance-industries/)

\
\

### Planning to conduct Sales Contests for your insurance agents? Choose a contest idea from this list:

[7 Sales Contest Ideas for Insurance Agents](https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contests-for-the-insurance-agents/)

\
\

### Want to give a cool and creative name for your insurance sales contest? Pick a perfect name for your contest from this blog:

[23 Sales Contest Names for Insurance](https://smartwinnr.com/post/23-sales-contest-names-for-insurance/)


\
\

### Looking for creative and funny sales team names? Get ideas from these articles below:

[25 Creative Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/25-creative-sales-team-names/)\

[34 Funny Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/funny-sales-team-names/)

\
\

### How will you communicate the contest to your participants?

Once you have a perfect contest idea and a suitable name for it, focus on communicating it effectively to your participants. Follow our [sales contest communication template](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/) to announce your contest.

\
\

### Searching for more award names and prizing ideas to give out to your contest winners? Read these articles below:

[creative employee recognition awards.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/)\
[23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/)

\
\

### Searching for some exciting themes for your contest?

Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics, and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - [Contest Theme Generator](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator)