---
title: 'Diwali Sales Contest Ideas for Retail Stores'
og_title: 'Diwali Sales Contest Ideas for Retail Stores'
description: Lighten up the sales in your retail store during this Diwali with these 7 amazing Diwali-themed sales contests 
og_description: Lighten up the sales in your retail store during this Diwali with these 7 amazing Diwali-themed sales contests
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 204
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -204
slug: "diwali-sales-contest-ideas-for-retail-stores"
featured_image: "/images/blog-204/diwali-sales-contest-ideas-for-retail-stores.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2021-10-20T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests"] 
relatedBlogs : ["Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "25 Creative Sales Team Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "Sales Contest Communication Template"]

---

What comes to your mind when you think of Diwali? 

* The festival of lights 
* The colorful rangolis
* The beautiful fireworks

Well as for me what excites me the most is the Diwali shopping. Being able to buy things that are under special discounts and offers for Diwali is really exciting. And most people in India look forward to the Diwali sale to fill their shopping carts.

This shopping mania during the Diwali season makes the retail stores, the busiest and most profitable places. 

So as a retail manager, you need to charge up your retail store employees to give their best and make the most out of this season.  One best way to do this is to organize some exciting Diwali-themed retail sales contests for them.

In this blog, we have brought to you some sales contest ideas which are based on the Diwali theme. These contests are sure to fire up your employees to actively sell during the Diwali season and bring in great sales success for your store.

\
\

### **1. Diwali Dhamaka Sale**

\

**Goal:** The goal here is to promote the sales of 

* The products which are under offer for Diwali 
* And the products which are specific for Diwali like the diyas, fireworks, lightings, etc

**Duration:** 2 weeks

**Winner:** The rep who succeeds in selling more units of the Diwali promotional products than the others

**Prize:** Huge cash bonus + Diwali firecrackers

**How to run this contest?** In this Diwali season, you must be having some Diwali-specific products or products which are under special offers in your store. Run this contest for a couple of weeks before Diwali to promote the sales of these products. Ask your reps to try to sell as many Diwali promotional products as they can. Keep a track of each rep’s progress on a live leaderboard. At the end of the contest period, reward the one who sells more units of the Diwali promotional products than the others.

\
\

### **2. Profit wali Diwali**

\

**Goal:** To get your reps to generate good sales profits for your store during the Diwali season

**Duration:** Two weeks

**Winner:** The person who generates a huge amount of profit

**Prize:** A gift hamper with exciting goodies in it

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest for a period of two weeks and encourage your reps to compete with each other in bringing in a huge amount of sales for the store. Track the amount of sales that each rep makes on a live leaderboard. Reward the rep who comes at the top of the leaderboard by making the largest amount of sales.

\
\

### **3. Diwali with [product name]**

\

**Goal:** To promote the sales of a new product during the Diwali

**Duration:** One month

**Winner:** The person who succeeds in selling more units of the new product

**Prize:** Present the latest electronic gadget of the winner’s choice

**How to run this contest?** Run this contest for one month and encourage your sales reps to actively promote the sales of the new product. Keep a track of each rep’s progress on a live leaderboard. At the end of the contest period, reward the rep who sells more units of the new products than the rest.

\
\

### **4. Diwali Yum**

\

**Goal:** This contest is suitable for larger retail stores where each square foot in the store is occupied by one kind of product. Like:

* One section for apparels
* Another section for electronics etc

Now the goal of this contest is to get your store staff working in various sections of the store to generate as much sales as they can in their respective sections

**Duration:** One month

**Winner:** All the employees in the section which has generated the highest amount of sales

**Prize:** A box of delicious Diwali sweets and a huge Diwali bonus

**How to run this sales contest?** Organize a sales per square foot sales contest here and encourage your reps to try to increase sales in their respective sections. By the end of the contest period, calculate sales in each square foot in your store. Select the square foot/ section with the highest sales as the winner and reward all the employees who are working in that section 

\
\

### **5. The Diya hunt**

\

**Goal:** The goal of this contest is to encourage your store staff to upsell to the customers

**Duration:** One week

**Winner:** The person who makes the most significant upsell

**Prize:** A set of beautiful diyas 

**How to run this contest?** Conduct this contest for one week and encourage your reps to try to make upsells to the customers. At the end of the contest period, calculate the number of upsells that each rep has made and reward the one who has made the most significant upsell

\
\

### **6. The Sparkler Store**

\

**Goal:** To get your stores in different locations to compete with each other in generating more sales

**Duration:** One month

**Winner:** All the employees of the store which has generated the highest sale 

**Prize:** Huge cash bonus and special Diwali prizes for everyone in the winning store

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest for one month between your sales stores in various locations. Encourage the employees in those stores to try to make as much sales as they can during the contest period. Track the progress of each store on a live leaderboard and reward the store that generates the highest sales by the end of the contest

\
\

### **7. Rocket Performer**

\

**Goal:** The goal here is to encourage your reps to serve the customers well and earn good reviews from them

**Duration:** Two weeks

**Winner:** The rep who succeeds in getting the highest number of positive reviews from the customers

**Prize:** Gift beautiful Diwali home decor to the winner

**How to run this contest?** Serving your customers well during this busy season of Diwali is extremely important in order to convert those customers to recurring customers. So, run this contest for a couple of weeks and encourage your store staff to 

* Interact well with the customers 
* Provide the best service to them 
* And try to earn positive reviews from them 

By the end of the contest period, calculate the number of positive reviews that each customer has earned and reward the one with the highest number of positive reviews.

\
\

### Looking for more festive-themed sales contest ideas?

**Read:** [7 Fun Sales Contest Ideas to Motivate your Team for Thanksgiving and Black Friday](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/7-fun-sales-contest-ideas-to-motivate-your-team-for-thanksgiving-and-black-friday/)

\
\

### Looking for more sales contest ideas in Retail?

**Read:** [7 Fun sales Contests for your Retail Stores](https://smartwinnr.com/post/7-fun-sales-contests-for-retail-stores/)

\
\

### Want to give a cool and creative name for your retail sales contest? Get good naming ideas from these blogs:

[19 Creative Retail sales contests names](https://smartwinnr.com/post/19-creative-retail-sales-contest-names/)\

[Top 20 Sales Contest Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/top-20-sales-contest-names/)

\
\

### Looking for creative and funny sales team names? Get ideas from these articles below:

[25 Creative Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/25-creative-sales-team-names/)\

[34 Funny Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/funny-sales-team-names/)

\
\

### How will you communicate your contest to your participants?

Once you have a perfect contest idea and a suitable name for it, focus on communicating it effectively to your participants. Follow our [sales contest communication template](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/) to announce your contest.

\
\

### Want to give out some interesting awards and prizes to your contest winners? Get ideas from these articles below:

[Creative Employee Recognition Award Names for Retail.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names-for-retail/)\

[Creative employee recognition awards.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/)\

[23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/)

\
\

### Searching for free themes for your contest?

Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics, and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - [Contest Theme Generator](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator)

\
\

### Looking for a sales contest software that will automate calculations and communications?

Explore [Smartwinnr’s solutions](https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/) and learn how your sales contests can be enhanced into increasing productivity, decreasing agent attrition, and reducing supervisory cost.

Schedule a [Free Demo](https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/) today to see how easy it is to use SmartWinnr to run your sales contests.