---
title: 'Diwali Gifting Ideas for Retail Employees'
og_title: 'Diwali Gifting Ideas for Retail Employees'
description: Looking for gifting ideas to reward the top performers during the Diwali season in your retail store? Here is an extensive list of Diwali prizing ideas which will surely make your retail store staff extremely happy.
og_description: Looking for gifting ideas to reward the top performers during the Diwali season in your retail store? Here is an extensive list of Diwali prizing ideas which will surely make your retail store staff extremely happy.
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 205
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -205
slug: "diwali-gifting-ideas-for-retail-employees"
featured_image: "/images/blog-205/diwali-gifting-ideas-for-retail-employees.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2021-10-30T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales"] 
relatedBlogs : ["Creative Diwali-themed employee recognition award names for retail stores", "Best Practices to Design your Sales Incentive Plan", "Best practices to Implement a Sales Incentive Plan", "How Gamification can help to take your Incentive Plan to a whole new level?", "Creative Employee Recognition Award Names for Retail", "Creative Employee Recognition Award Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated"]

---

Millions of people celebrate Diwali as the festival of,

* New beginnings
* Triumph of good over evil
* Lights and fireworks
* And most importantly shopping

It is this festive season when the retail stores get extremely busy and crowded. And retail employees work around the clock to meet the demands of the heavy crowds.

As a retail manager, you have the responsibility to recognize and reward the efforts and hard work of your store staff in order to make them feel appreciated and happy at their workplace.

To help you with this, we have brought to you some Diwali prizing ideas which are sure to make your employees’ Diwali extra special. Check them out below:

\
\

### **1. Assorted Dry Fruits**

A classic and most favorite Diwali gift is a basket of assorted dry fruits. They are not only traditional and elegant-looking gift options, but they are also full of health benefits. They can be stored easily and are pretty easy to transport and distribute, making them rather suitable as bulk corporate gifts.

\
\

### **2. Travel Vouchers**

Diwali is the time for family and friends. Your employees will appreciate it if you give them a little extra time off to celebrate the festival with their dear ones. It is one of the most thoughtful things you can do for them.

\
\

### **3. Cash Bonus**

People celebrate Diwali along with Laxmi Puja. It is associated with money, prosperity, and wealth. Sending bonus cheques to your employees is a great way to ring in the festival.

\
\

### **4. Customized Gifts**

A little thought goes a long way. If you want to make your employees feel a little extra special, here's an excellent idea for you. Make the whole gift-giving fun by curating a few combinations of gift hampers for your employees. It can have movie tickets, gift vouchers, office essentials, phone covers, or water bottles. And then have your employees can choose a bag randomly. It would be a pretty good surprise for them when they open the bag.

\
\

### **5. Bonsai Tree**

Who wouldn't like Bonsai trees? They are beautiful, cute and are a great addition to any indoor garden. Gift a beautiful Bonsai tree to your reps which they can use to decorate their homes. Some good trees for bonsai include Juniper, pines, spruces, cedars, magnolia, elms, and oaks.

\
\

### **6. Metallic home decor and gift hampers**

Following the typical Indian custom, you can give metallic gift items on Diwali. Like, 

* Metallic decor items
* Copper idols of deity
* Silver glasses
* Brass or silver bowls
* Silver spoons 

These will make excellent Diwali gifts.

\
\

### **7. Sweet Basket**

One cannot have too many sweets for Diwali. Diwali is when friends and families come together and have sweets. It is an integral part of the celebration. From Gulab jamun, Motichoor Ke Ladoos, Rasgulla, Kaju Barfi to Soan Papdi to Gujia, the range of gift options is just huge. Giving sweets baskets to your employees is a great way to add sweetness and joy to their celebrations.

\
\

### **8. Electronic Gadgets**

You millennial and GenZ employees just love electronics such as 

* Smartwatches
* Fitness Trackers
* Portable Bluetooth speakers
* Headphones
* Phone adapters
* Power banks etc 

Receiving these products would make them extremely happy

\
\

### **9. Household Electronics**

Kitchen essentials and home electronics are common Diwali gifts. But you can upgrade your game by giving your employees a piece of modern kitchen gadgets such as 

* A coffee machine
* A hand blender
* An air fryer
* Or a toaster

These kinds of gifts are considered auspicious during Diwali and usher goodwill at home.

\
\

### **10. Custom-made Goodies**

If you want to make your Diwali gifts unique and special for your employees, the best thing to do is to go for personalization of gifts. You can run a quick survey to understand your employees' likes, dislikes, and preferences. Once the results are in, you can plan gifts accordingly. 

Another way to add a personal touch is adding a name tag or engraving your employees' names in gift items. For example, you can engrave your employees’ names on these gift items below to personalize them

* Keychains
* Metal pens
* Photo frames
* And coffee mugs 

\
\

### **11. reative Art Pieces**

People love adding new elements to their homes on Diwali. Therefore, creative art pieces make for a good gift for your employees during the Diwali season. You can select beautiful art pieces from a wide range of selections readily available on online gift stores. 

\
\

### **12. The Ethnic Clothes**

Any Indian festivity feels incomplete without ethnic attire. As a Diwali gift, you can give your employees a beautiful Indian piece of clothing. Maybe a kurta for men and a saree for women. It will not only be useful and memorable to them, but they'll also take special pride in flaunting it.

\
\

### **13. Aromatic Candle Set**

Decorative, scented, and colorful sets of candles make great gifts for your store staff. They are therapeutic and also can help relieve stress. They also add a touch of elegance and finesse to to the people’s homes.

\
\

### **14. Box of chocolates**

Chocolate makes everything better. A chocolate box with a combination of various types of chocolates is an evergreen gifting option. You can create a box where you have a mix of 

* Dark chocolates
* Imported candies
* Milk chocolates
* Exotic handmade chocolates 

You can never go wrong with it!

\
\

### **15. Amazon Gift Card**

Amazon gift cards are a great gifting option for all seasons. They offer the flexibility of choice to your employees, and they can use it to buy anything that they wish to buy from Amazon. 

\
\

### **16. Subscriptions**

A unique yet handy gift is a subscription to maybe 

* A magazine
* A streaming service
* Courses
* Or some special skills 

There are subscriptions for pretty much any hobby or interest you can think of. Getting a free Netflix subscription for six months or a Spotify premium account will cheer your employees up!

\
\

### **17. Fitness subscriptions**

The fast-paced lifestyle followed by many people today is adversely affecting their health and wellbeing. And then it is also complemented by an irregular diet and sleeping schedule. All these combined make people prone to many chronic illnesses.

Therefore, the best Diwali gift that you can give your employees would be to introduce them to the world of fitness by providing them the membership of,

* The gym
* The yoga classes
* Aerobics 
* Boxing
* Swimming etc

Provide these memberships based on their interest and preference

\
\

### **18. E-books**

This one is for the book lovers in your store. Make them happy by giving out some good e-books as a Diwali gift to them. 

A good book holds the power to open up one’s mind and even inspires them to do something great. It also improves their vocabulary and allows them to learn about things that may come in handy in the real world.

\
\

### Want to create a solid sales incentive plan for your store? Read the following articles:

[Best Practices to Design your Sales Incentive Plan](https://smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-design-your-sales-incentive-plan/)\

[Best practices to Implement a Sales Incentive Plan](https://smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-implement-a-sales-incentive-plan/)\

[How Gamification can help to take your Incentive Plan to a whole new level?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/how-gamification-can-help-to-take-your-incentive-plan-to-a-whole-new-level/)

\
\

### Want to present creative Diwali-themed awards to the top performers of your retail store? 

**Read:** [Creative Diwali-themed employee recognition award names for retail stores](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-diwali-themed-employee-recognition-award-names-for-retail-stores/)

\
\

### Want more award names and prizing ideas? Get ideas from these articles below:

[Creative Employee Recognition Award Names for Retail.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names-for-retail/)\

[Creative employee recognition awards.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/)\

[23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/)
