---
title: 'Holiday Sales Contest Ideas for Retail Stores'
og_title: 'Holiday Sales Contest Ideas for Retail Stores'
description: This holiday season, run these amazing retail sales contests in your store in order to motivate your staff to put in their best efforts and bring in great sales results for your store
og_description: This holiday season, run these amazing retail sales contests in your store in order to motivate your staff to put in their best efforts and bring in great sales results for your store
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 220
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -220
slug: "holiday-sales-contest-ideas-for-retail-stores"
featured_image: "/images/blog-220/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: true
date: '2021-11-24T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contest"]
relatedBlogs : ["Automate your Sales Contests",
"25 Creative Sales Team Names",
"Sales Contest Communication Template",
"Top 20 Sales Contest Names",
"23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated"]

---

The holiday season is just about to begin. This season is definitely the most busiest and profitable time for retail stores. During this time, retail stores are heavily crowded with people shopping for Thanksgiving, Black Friday, Christmas, and New Year. This makes the retail staff work restlessly for extended hours which might lead to them experiencing burnout. 

You can reduce their work stress and motivate them to give their best during this exciting season [by gamifying their work activities and creating a game-like environment in your retail store](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/7-fun-sales-contests-for-retail-stores/). Here are some sales contest ideas which are perfect to run during the holiday season in order to fire up your retail staff to actively sell and bring in great sales outcomes for your store

\
\

### **1. Black Friday Bonanza**

**Goal:** To get your employees to compete with each other in selling more number of units of various products in your store on Black Friday

**Duration:** One day

**Points:** 100 points per product sold

**Prize:** Amazon gift voucher

**Winner:** The rep who succeeds in selling more number of products than the others in the store on Black Friday

**How to run this contest?** Run this contest on the day of black Friday. Encourage your sales reps to actively sell as many products as they can to all the customers who walk into your store on Black Friday. At the end of the day, reward the reps who sells more number of units of the products than the others

\
\

### **2. Black is the color of profits**

**Goal:** To get your reps to compete with each other in generating huge amounts of sales for your retail store

**Duration:** One day

**Winner:** The rep who brings in the highest amount of sales on Black Friday

**Prize:** A family vacation to an exotic holiday destination

**How to run this contest:** Organize this contest on Black Friday and encourage your contest participants to try to bring in huge amounts of sales. Keep a track of the amount sales made by each employee on a live leaderboard. At the of the day, the person who makes the highest amount of sales wins the contest

\
\

### **3. The Upsell Spree**

**Goal:** The goal of this contest is to encourage your store staff to upsell to the customers

**Duration:** One day

**Winner:** The person who makes the most significant upsell or highest number of upsells

**How to run this contest?** Conduct this contest for a day on Black Friday and encourage your reps to try to make upsells to the customers. At the end of the contest period, calculate the number of upsells that each rep has made and reward the one who has made the most significant upsell or the highest number of upsells

\
\

### **4. Holiday Bonanza**

**Goal:** To promote the sales of the products which are under special offers for the holiday season

**Duration:** Throughout the holiday season

**Points:** 50 points per holiday promotional product sold

**Winner:** The rep who succeeds in selling more number of promotional products than the others

**Prize:** A huge cash bonus

**How to run this contest?** You must be having some products in your store which are under special offers during this holiday season. Run this contest throughout the holiday season and encourage your reps to increase the sales of these products. Keep a track of your reps progress on a live leaderboard and reward the rep who succeeds in selling more number of units of the promotional products than the others in the store

\
\

### **5. A bunch of turkeys**

**Goal:** This contest is suitable for larger retail stores where each square foot in the store is occupied by one kind of product. Like:
One section for apparels
Another section for electronics etc
Now the goal of this contest is to get your store staff working in various sections of the store to generate as much sales as they can in their respective sections

**Duration:** One week

**Winners:** All the employees in the section which generates the highest amount of sales

**Prize:** Give the winner a huge cash bonus and get a turkey delivered to their house for thanksgiving

**How to run this sales contest?** Organize a sales per square foot sales contest here and encourage your reps to try to increase sales in their respective sections. By the end of the contest period, calculate sales in each square foot in your store. Select the square foot/ section with the highest sales as the winner and reward all the employees who are working in that section

\
\

### **6. Jingle all the way**

**Goal:** To get your reps to generate huge amounts of sales profits for your store by Christmas

**Duration:** From the start of the holiday season until Christmas

**Winner:** The top 3 reps who bring in huge amounts of sales revenue for your store by the end of the 25th December (i.e Christmas)

**Prize:** A basket of exciting Christmas goodies

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest and encourage your reps to compete with each other in bringing in a huge amount of sales for the store by Christmas. Track the amount of sale that each rep makes on a live leaderboard. Reward the top 3 reps who appear at the top of the leaderboard by making the largest amount of sales.

\
\

### **7. Ho-Ho-Holiday feast**

**Goal:** The goal here is to get your reps to promote the sales of the products which are Christmas-specific like Christmas trees, Christmas decorative items, candies, Santa costumes, Christmas gifting items, etc

**Duration:** Two weeks

**Winner:** The rep who succeeds in selling more number of units of the Christmas-specific products

**Prize:** Cash bonus + Christmas feast for the winner’s family at a five star restraunt

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest two weeks before Christmas and encourage your reps to actively sell the Christmas-specific products. Track the progress of each individual on a live leaderboard and reward the top 3 reps who appear at the top of the leaderboard by selling more number of units of the Christmas specific products 

\
\

### **8. Store of the Season**

**Goal:** To get your stores in different locations to compete with each other in generating more sales

**Duration:** Holiday season

**Winner:** All the employees of the store which has generated the highest sale during the holiday season

**Prize:** Huge cash bonus and special holiday gift hampers for everyone in the winning store

**How to run this contest?** Run this contest throughout the holiday season between your retail stores in various locations. Encourage the employees in those stores to try to make as much sales as they can during the contest period. Track the progress of each store on a live leaderboard and reward the store that generates the highest sales by the end of the contest

\
\

### Looking for more festive-themed sales contest ideas?

**Read:** [7 Fun Sales Contest Ideas to Motivate your Team for Thanksgiving and Black Friday](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/7-fun-sales-contest-ideas-to-motivate-your-team-for-thanksgiving-and-black-friday/)

\
\

### Looking for more sales contest ideas in Retail?

**Read:** [7 Fun sales Contests for your Retail Stores](https://smartwinnr.com/post/7-fun-sales-contests-for-retail-stores/)

\
\

### Want to give a cool and creative name for your retail sales contest? Get good naming ideas from these blogs:

[19 Creative Retail sales contests names](https://smartwinnr.com/post/19-creative-retail-sales-contest-names/)\

[Top 20 Sales Contest Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/top-20-sales-contest-names/)

\
\

### Looking for creative and funny sales team names? Get ideas from these articles below:

[25 Creative Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/25-creative-sales-team-names/)\

[34 Funny Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/funny-sales-team-names/)

\
\

### How will you communicate your contest to your participants?

Once you have a perfect contest idea and a suitable name for it, focus on communicating it effectively to your participants. Follow our [sales contest communication template](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/) to announce your contest.

\
\

### Want to give out some interesting awards and prizes to your contest winners? Get ideas from these articles below:

[Creative Employee Recognition Award Names for Retail.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names-for-retail/)\

[Creative employee recognition awards.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/)\

[23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/)

\
\

### Searching for free themes for your contest?

Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics, and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - [Contest Theme Generator](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator)

\
\

### Looking for a sales contest software that will automate calculations and communications?

Explore [Smartwinnr’s solutions](https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/) and learn how your sales contests can be enhanced into increasing productivity, decreasing agent attrition, and reducing supervisory cost.

Schedule a [Free Demo](https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/) today to see how easy it is to use SmartWinnr to run your sales contests.
