---
title: 'How to make your Sales Compensation Motivating for the Managers?'
og_title: 'How to make your Sales Compensation Motivating for the Managers?'
description: An extensive list of interesting and crazy credit union sales contest names
og_description: An extensive list of interesting and crazy credit union sales contest names
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 246
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -246
slug: "how-to-make-your-sales-compensation-motivating-for-the-managers?"
featured_image: "/images/blog-246/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2022-03-17T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: [Sales, Sales Performance, Sales Effectiveness]
relatedBlogs : ["8 Tips to Create your Sales Contests around March Madness",
"How to Run a March Madness Contest - The Step by Step Guide",
"How to design a March Madness Contest for a Smaller Team (50 - 100)?",
"How to Design a March Madness Contest for a larger team (>500)?",
"Top 20 Sales Contest Names",
"25 Creative Sales Team Names",
"23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated",
"Sales Contest Communication Template",
"Creative Employee Recognition Award Names"
]

---

If we look back and analyze human history we will notice that we have developed a habit of promoting top performers everywhere.  Like, 

* The best soldiers were promoted to captains, 
* The best athletes promoted to coaches, 
* The best students promoted to teachers, 
* And the list goes on and on.  

And all these leaders, time and again have become the below 3 kinds of leaders, 

* **Triumph Leaders –** These leaders accept the challenge and are a positive addition to their communities, organizations, countries, etc.
* **Mediocre Leaders –** These leaders aren’t necessarily failures, but they also aren’t a success.  These are the ones you never hear about. They are good enough, but not great.
* **Failure Leaders** – I probably don’t need to do much explaining on this kind.
 
Needless to say that the salespeople who get promoted as sales managers also take one of the above three paths. The differentiating factor here between the candidates that become great sales leaders and the candidates that become mediocre/ failure sales managers is “motivation”. 

\
\

### **Understanding how the context of motivation changes for a manager**

Here we want to highlight something that is often overlooked by many organizations. That is how the contest of success changes when a sales rep gets promoted to a managerial position and attempts to be a successful manager. 

Let’s take an example of an Account Executive to understand this better. For years, this AE thought about only one thing– that is to work hard to hit her quota. Everything this AE did for the last few years was all in pursuit of this one goal. All of her training was about becoming a better seller so she could hit quota easily. Late nights were spent updating the CRM because she wanted her forecast to be accurate. And then, when she exceeded her quota, she joined the President’s Club. Now this individual more or less had complete control over her success, and therefore, she also had complete control over her compensation.

Once this AE gets promoted to a managerial position, the expectations change. She will be training her team so they can be successful. She will be up late listening to others’ calls and looking through their opportunities in the [CRM](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/gamifying-salesforce/). She may or may not go to the President’s Club because, at the end of the day, it’s up to her team to reach their goals.  This is a huge change and it’s important that we recognize it as we talk about motivating and compensating sales managers.

If we don’t understand the situation we are asking them to be in, how can we appropriately set up a compensation plan for them to reach their goals?  The likelihood of failure is so much higher if, at the executive level, we don’t aid in the process of context switching and ramp the managers as they figure this out.

\
\

### **Understanding the New Motivation for Managers**

Even if you take a top-performing rep who is most dedicated towards her work, and promote her to the role of a manager, you will still run into motivation problems with her. When a rep is taken off the sales floor and put in a side office next to her new team, she is going to be faced with a dilemma and a sense of lowered productivity in her new role as a sales manager. 

Here are a few tips to keep in mind as you help facilitate the transition of a sales rep to a sales manager.

* **Take it slow:** Give your new managers enough time to transition. They have been completely focused on their own goals and success up until this point, and that won’t change overnight.
* **Maintain open lines of communication:** Although the pressure of achieving an individual quota is generally gone, this individual may still go through an emotional rollercoaster.  It can be mentally taxing to adjust to an environment where they don’t necessarily get the high of reeling in a deal.  Be patient and allow the new sales managers to be vulnerable initially.
* **Lay down a plan for success:** Help new sales managers ramp and let them know what success looks like for their role. Consistently provide coaching on how to be successful. And offer consistent feedback along the way.  Be their advocate

Next, let’s really understand how to tie motivation and compensation together pertaining to sales managers.

\
\

### **The Structure of Compensation Plans for Sales Managers: Base Vs Variable**

One of the trickiest parts of [building any compensation strategy]() is finding the right balance between the base pay and the commissions. When we talk about the [sales compensation](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-design-your-sales-incentive-plan/) for sales reps, it’s pretty safe to stay within the range of 40/60 (base/variable), or  60/40. However, my personal suggestion would be to have a 50/50 range.  As discussed earlier, the sales reps’ commissions should motivate them to selfishly hit goals and targets. So a model like this tends to create hungry and strong sales reps.

On the other hand, the managers’ compensation strategies should be a little different. Once someone is promoted to a manager role, you generally want to see an uptick in their guaranteed base and a small decrease in their dependence on commissions.  That doesn’t mean that the amount of commissions they earn should necessarily be less. But the ratio should generally favor the base pay. Because these individuals have proven themselves as top performers and now they deserve to get a good amount of guaranteed base pay. 

If you [incentivize](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-implement-a-sales-incentive-plan/) your managers too much by commissions, you start to drive potentially selfish motivations that aren’t conducive toward facilitating a healthy team environment.  You start to build managers who are focused on numbers and attainment alone. And not on the job satisfaction and the health of their team members.  If you want to build a healthy and sustainable sales culture, incentivize your managers to focus on 

* Their respective teams, 
* Their team’s success, 
* And their team’s job satisfaction, 
all at the same time.

\
\

### **Individual Team Attainment Vs Company Attainment**

Along with balancing base vs variable [incentives](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-gamification-can-help-to-take-your-incentive-plan-to-a-whole-new-level/) in the manager’s commission plans, you also need to balance team vs. company attainment.  Simply put, team attainment vs. company attainment refers to how much compensation is tied to individual team performance vs. overall company performance.  Although team attainment vs. company attainment is situational, here’s where I recommend starting.

* **Team Attainment:** I suggest making 65-75% of your sales managers’ variable commissions tied to their team’s performance. This should also include potential accelerators if their team exceeds expectations.  Team performance should be your managers’ main focus.  You can also make this a tiered structure that accelerates the commission rate after 100% of the team goal has been met.  This will help motivate your sales managers to take an active role in their team’s success.

* **Company Attainment:** Here I’d recommend that you tie 10-20% of the sales manager’s variable pay to company goal attainment (in the form of a hit or miss bonus).  This will help encourage your sales managers to buy into your company’s vision and to collaborate with other members of the leadership team.  Giving them a chunk of cash that is tied directly to company goals also gives the manager a healthy sense of ownership when it comes to the success of the overall organization.

\
\

### **Final Thoughts**

Concluding here, my final thought is this: Take care of your sales managers and they will take care of you.  I don’t know if I’ve seen a role in sales where promotion can so quickly turn into disaster than in the case of a sales manager. And a lot of the time it isn’t the sales manager’s fault.

By customizing your compensation plan to suit their motivational needs, you can make sure that you enable your managers to make the mental and physical adjustments needed to be successful in their new role. And this could take time.  

That being said, I would also like to end with one word of caution: Just because you shouldn’t expect a new manager to immediately change the performance of a team, you should immediately see them attempting to make improvements in their ability to lead and perform.
