---
title: 'Create the Most Effective Sales Commissions Structure'
og_title: 'Create the Most Effective Sales Commissions Structure'
description: Planning to create a perfect sales compensation structure for your sales teams? Here is everything that you need to know about sales compensations before you create your plan
og_description: Planning to create a perfect sales compensation structure for your sales teams? Here is everything that you need to know about sales compensations before you create your plan
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 246
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -246
slug: "create-the-most-effective-sales-commissions-structure"
featured_image: "/images/blog-247/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: true
date: '2022-03-17T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: [Sales, Sales Incentives]
relatedBlogs : ["8 Tips to Create your Sales Contests around March Madness",
"How to Run a March Madness Contest - The Step by Step Guide",
"How to design a March Madness Contest for a Smaller Team (50 - 100)?",
"How to Design a March Madness Contest for a larger team (>500)?",
"Top 20 Sales Contest Names",
"25 Creative Sales Team Names",
"23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated",
"Sales Contest Communication Template",
"Creative Employee Recognition Award Names"
]

---

### **What is Sales Commission?**

[Sales commission]() is a key aspect of sales compensation that an organization gives to its sales reps. It's the amount of money that the salespeople earn based on the number of sales they have made. This is additional money that often complements their standard base pay.

[Over the years sales commissions have taken various forms and shapes]() in order to meet the needs of various industries, companies, and their sales teams. As a result, organizations have begun to create their own customized sales commission structures that are suitable for their business's needs. If you are planning to create your own sales commission structure then this blog will help you in creating the best one. Keep reading to learn more about this

\
\

### **So, What is a Sales Commission Structure?**

A sales commission structure outlines how much an organization will pay its salespeople for each individual sale they bring in. When planning to create a sales commission structure, sales leaders should consider factors like 

* How much of their budget can they allocate for commission? 
* How much they’ll pay for different levels of sales output? 
* What are their employees’ base salaries and other potential bonuses going to look like?
* What kind of incentives are they willing to include?

\
\

### **A couple of tips for creating a good compensation structure**

The famous sales strategist  [Marc Wayshak](https://www.marcwayshak.com/marc-wayshak-sales-strategist/), in his book, *"The High-Velocity Sales Organization"*, mentioned the following tips that one should keep in mind while creating a commission structure:

* **Don't cap salaries**\
Capping salaries decrease the earning potential of your salespeople. You need to make sure that your [sales management]() is supportive of your sales team’s progress. And each individual should be given an opportunity to earn as much as possible in return for their hard work.

*  **Keep it Simple**\
Make your compensation and commission plan simple and clear. Not only will this make the commission structure easier to implement, but it will also ensure there aren't any loopholes in the plan. A simple sales commission plan simply means that a salesperson is able to fill in the blanks: If I do X, then I will make $Y

\
\

### **Types of Sales Commission Structures**

So, what commission structure should you choose? Well, there are a few to pick from. Common structures include:

\
\

### **1. Base Pay Plus Commission**

This is the most conventional [commission structure.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/best-practices-to-design-your-sales-incentive-plan/) With this plan, salespeople are provided a base salary with commission. The standard salary to commission ratio is 60:40, where 60% is fixed and 40% is variable.

\

**Where is this suitable:**

This structure is ideal for companies where sales rep retention is critical for the success of the company. The company is actively investing in the success of its reps by incentivizing their performance.

\
\

### **2.Straight Commission Plan**

In this plan, sales reps' income comes directly from the sales they earn. There is no base salary here. High-performing sales reps typically thrive in environments set by this plan. But this structure doesn't lend itself to stability.

\

**Where is this suitable:**

This particular structure is usually leveraged by startups and other small businesses that might lack reliable access to capital. In a lot of ways, this amounts to a pay-as-you-go plan. This plan often suits the businesses that don't have the resources to provide competitive base salaries to their sales employees.

\
\

### **3. Relative Commission Plan**

In a relative commission plan, the commission a rep earns is directly proportional to how much of a set quota they hit. This relative commission comes on top of a base salary. Unlike the straight commission plan, this relative commission plan provides the reps with more of a safety net.

\

**Where is this suitable:**

This plan is essentially a more secure answer to a straight commission plan. It's still directly tied to performance, but it doesn't alienate reps that might be running into trouble. This type of plan is better than the straight commission plan as this is likely to result in less employee turnover.

\
\

### **4. Absolute Commission Plan**

This strategy helps to direct sales reps' focus towards a particular sales activity. If a business needs to improve its numbers with respect to a specific activity, it might use an absolute commission plan that revolves around it.

\

**Where is it suitable:**

This strategy is most often employed to help direct sales reps' focus. If a business needs to improve its numbers with respect to a specific activity, it might use an absolute commission plan that revolves around it.

\
\

### **5. Straight-Line Commission Plan**

The straight-line commission motivates your reps to successfully achieve their quotas. In the straight-line plan, the commission rate is totally consistent. A salesperson will be paid commission based on how close they get to their quota. Meaning

* A rep who sells 50% of their quota will be paid 50% of their commission
* And a rep who sells 200% of their quota will be paid 200%
 
\

**Where is this suitable:**

Straight-line commission is good when compensating a sales team formed of different personalities or professional profiles. 

* Sales reps who have had a tough month will be saved from the discouragement of not getting paid for not being able to meet the quota
* While high-flying members of the sales team will be able to reap a greater reward for a month in which they outperformed expectations

\
\
 
### **6. Tiered Commission Plan**

A tiered commission structure encourages reps to put in extra effort by providing higher commission as they hit substantial sales milestones. Here, reps could be paid increasing commissions as they 

* Meet their quota 
* Exceed their quota 
* And continue to close more deals than they’re expected to

\

**Where is this suitable:**

A tiered commission plan is ideal for organizations with salespeople who consistently reach their goals, but do not exceed them. This commission plan helps in motivating those employees to go above and beyond the set limits.

\
\

### **7.Territory Volume Commission**

In this commission structure, the salespeople who work with clients in clearly defined regions get paid based on the area they cover within their assigned territory. Meaning, they get paid for the number of customers they score within a territory. 

\

**Where is this suitable:**

First and foremost (and perhaps most obviously), a territory volume commission plan suits those businesses that have a presence in multiple territories. It's ideal for team-based organizations that are aiming to fortify or enter various areas with their products or services.

\
\

### **8. Recoverable Draw Against Commission Plan**

This plan allows reps to draw against their future commission earnings and have it paid out early.

This plan is essentially an ‘IOU (I owe you)’ from your sales rep. The ‘draw’ is a set amount of money that needs to be paid back to the company under predetermined conditions. If a rep’s commission is less than the amount drawn, they keep their commissions, and the difference is calculated from the draw.

\

**Where is this suitable:**

A recoverable draw against the commission plan is typically used to get reps off the ground in some capacity. It's often used to compensate newly hired, ramping reps as they onboard. It might also be used to pay a rep who's getting acclimated to a new territory.

\
\

### **9. Residual Commission**

A residual commission structure is based on the long-term value of individual accounts. In this structure, salespeople who successfully close deals and acquire accounts, receive commissions for those accounts on an ongoing basis (so long as they continue to generate revenue). This particular structure can be higher-stakes than most. Because, if you look at it

* On one hand, it encourages salespeople to build a breadth of solid, productive income streams over time 
* On the other, losing an account for reasons that might have nothing to do with the salesperson who landed it can take a sizable hit on their commission

\

**Where is this suitable:**

This structure is best suited for businesses that maintain long-term relationships with clients. This includes entities like advertising agencies or consulting firms.

These details on sales commission structures and compensation plans will help you determine which structure will work best for your company and your sales team.

