---
title: 'Sales Contest Ideas for Senior Living'
og_title: 'Sales Contest Ideas for Senior Living'
description: A list of some of the amazing sales contest ideas for the senior living industry
og_description: A list of some of the amazing sales contest ideas for the senior living industry
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 255
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -255
slug: "sales-contest-ideas-for-senior-living"
featured_image: "/images/blog-255/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2022-04-20T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: [Sales, Sales Contests]
relatedBlogs : ["Automate your Sales Contests",
"Top 20 Sales Contest Names",
"How to Launch a Sales Contest",
"25 Creative Sales Team Names",
"23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated",
"Sales Contest Communication Template"]

---

Driving good sales results takes extra effort and hard work in the senior living industry. Your executive directors and marketing directors need to aggressively pursue sales and at the same time be empathetic and patient with the clients. In order to keep them motivated to give their best at work, you can arrange the following sales contests.

These sales contests will encourage your reps to,

* Complete crucial sales activities on-time
* Give tours to clients
* Convert those tours to deposits
* And then those deposits into move-in

\
\

### **1. The Lead Hunt**

**Goal:** To get your sales reps in various communities to call up the potential customers and enter them into the sales pipeline as leads

**Duration:** Every day for a couple of hours

**Points:** 10 points per lead entered into the sales pipeline

**Winner:** The community that brings in the maximum number of leads

**How to run this contest?** Set two hours on the clock every day and encourage your sales reps in various communities to call up the potential customers in their territory and try to enter them as sales lead into the sales cycle. Reward the rep who brings in the maximum number of leads

\
\

### **2. The Touring Tournament**

**Goal:** To get your sales reps in various communities to give as many tours as they can to the clients in their territory during the contest period

**Duration:** Two Weeks

**Points:** 100 points per tour

**Winner:** The community that gives the maximum number of tours wins this contest

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest for a couple of weeks and encourage all your communities to compete with each other in giving more number of tours of the. At the end of the contest period, declare the community that gives more number of tours wins than the other communities as the winner.

\
\

### **3. Tour to move-in contest**

**Goal:** To get your communities to convert more number of community tours to move-ins

**Duration:** One quarter

**Points:** 100 points per tour converted to move-in

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest for one quarter and encourage your reps to convert tours to move-ins. The community that converts more number of tours to move-ins wins the contest.

\
\

### **4. Star Community** 

**Goal:** To get to communities to compete with each other in generating the highest amount of revenue

**Duration:** One year

**Winner:** The community that brings in the highest amount of revenue than the other communities by the end of the year

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest throughout the year and encourage your communities to compete with each other in generating the highest amount of sales revenue. At the end of each year, reward the community that succeeds in generating the highest amount of revenue.

\
\

### **5. The Move-ins Race**

**Goal:** To encourage your communities to bring in as many move-ins as they can

**Frequency:** Every month

**Points:** 50 points per move-in

**Winner:** The community with the highest number of move-ins will be declared a winner

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest every month and encourage all your communities to try and bring in the maximum number of move-ins. By the end of each month, reward the community which has brought in the maximum number of move-ins with exciting prizes.

\
\

### **6. Full Occupancy**

**Goal:** To encourage your communities to improve their move-in rates

**Frequency:** Every quarter

**Winner:** The community that brings the highest number of move-ins in one quarter wins the contest

**How to run this contest?** Organize this contest every quarter and encourage your communities to try and achieve 100% occupancy in their respective community. The community that first archives this goal of fulfilling 100% occupancy in their community, wins the contest

\
\

### **7. Territory Tyrant**

**Goal:** The goal of this contest is to get your communities to achieve maximum coverage in their respective territory

**Frequency:** Quarterly

**Winner:** The community that has acquired maximum customers in the territory that they are operating in

**How to run this contest?** Run this contest on a quarterly basis and encourage your communities to try to maximize their coverage in their respective territories (meaning, acquire as many customers as they can in their territory). At the end of the contest period, reward the community that has the maximum coverage in its territory.

\
\

### Learn how SmartWinnr is helping the Senior living companies to successfully achieve their sales targets and produce greater sales results

[SmartWinnr for Senior Living](https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/senior-living/)

\
\

### Want to give a cool and creative name for your senior living sales contests?

\
\

### Want to give out some creative awards to your top-performing communities? Get ideas from this blog below:

\
\

### Looking for creative and funny sales team names?

[25 Creative Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/25-creative-sales-team-names/)\

[34 Funny Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/funny-sales-team-names/)\

\
\

### How will you communicate the contest to your participants?

Once you have a perfect contest idea and a suitable name for it, focus on communicating it effectively to your participants. Follow our [sales contest communication template](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/) to announce your contest.

\
\

### Searching for some exciting themes for your contest?
Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics, and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - [Contest Theme Generator](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator)

\
\

### Searching for award names and prizing ideas to give out to your contest winners? Read these articles below:

[creative employee recognition awards.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/)\

[23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/)

\
\
