---
title: 'Sales Contest Names for Senior Living'
og_title: 'Sales Contest Names for Senior Living'
description: A list of some of the amazing sales contest ideas for the senior living industry
og_description: A list of some of the amazing sales contest ideas for the senior living industry
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 256
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -256
slug: "sales-contest-names-for-senior-living"
featured_image: "/images/blog-256/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: true
date: '2022-04-20T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: [Sales, Sales Contests]
relatedBlogs : ["Automate your Sales Contests",
"Top 20 Sales Contest Names",
"How to Launch a Sales Contest",
"25 Creative Sales Team Names",
"23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated",
"Sales Contest Communication Template"]

---
Running sales contests in your senior living communities is the best way to keep your sales staff in those communities motivated to drive up sales and keep their customers happy. In our previous blog, we have discussed some amazing sales contest ideas for the senior living industry. Click here to check out those ideas.

In this blog, however, we have brought to you some creative names that you can give to your sales contests in order to make them interesting

1. **Lead Hunt:** Organize this contest every day for a couple of hours and encourage your communities to call up the prospective customers and try to enter them into the sales cycle as leads. Each sales rep must try to bring in as many leads as they can in this timeframe. The sales rep who succeeds in bringing in more number of leads will get rewarded.
2. **The touring tournament:** Use this contest to encourage your communities to compete with each other in giving more number of tours to the clients. At the end of the contest period, select the community that has given more number of tours as the winner.
3. **Move-in Bonanza:** Run this contest and encourage your sales staff to increase the number of move-ins in their respective communities. At the end of the contest, the community with the highest number of move-ins will be declared a winner
4. **Sales Championship:** Organize this contest between your communities and encourage them to actively try to make the highest amount of sales. At the end of the contest period, the community with the highest amount of sales wins this contest
5. **The great race:** Set a quota here for your communities to achieve. Encourage all your communities to chase this quota and try to be the first ones to meet the quota
6. **Dance of deposits:** Organize this contest and encourage your communities to convert as many tours as they can into deposits as they can. At the end of the contest, the community that has collected the highest amount of deposit must be rewarded. 
7. **100% occupancy:** Focus this contest on getting your sales reps in various communities to try and achieve 100% occupancy in their respective communities. The community that first achieves this target wins the contest.
8. **Territory Coverage:** Focus this contest on getting your communities to achieve maximum coverage in their territory (acquire maximum customers in their territory). The community that first achieves maximum coverage in its territory wins this contest
9. **Best service ever:** Organize this contest and encourage your sales reps to provide best service to their customers. Encourage them to collect feedback from the customers after assisting them. And at the end of every month, the community with the highest number of positive feedback wins this contest. 
10. **Close em all:** Organize this contest and encourage all your senior living communities to close as many sales as they can in a given timeframe. The community that closes more number of sales wins this contest.
11. **Revenue Rush:** Organize this as an annual contest and encourage your communities to compete with each other in earning the maximum amount of annual revenue. The community that earns the highest amount of revenue than the other communities, wins this contest
12. **Rookie Rockstars:** Organize this contest between the newly established communities and reward the community that is first to achieve 100% occupancy in their facility
13. **Referrals Race:** This contest encourages your sales staff to try and earn referrals from the existing customers
14. **Turn the tables:** Organize this contest between all your low-performing communities and motivate them to get to the top of the leaderboard. The community that first reaches to the top wins this contest.
15. **Weekend sales race:** Organize this contest during the weekend to encourage your reps to actively complete their activities and drive up sales
16. **Mission Rejuvenation:** Run this contest and encourage your sales reps to reach out to the older and dead contacts and try to restart a sales conversation with them.

\
\

### Learn how SmartWinnr is helping the Senior living companies to successfully achieve their sales targets and produce greater sales results

[SmartWinnr for Senior Living](https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/senior-living/)

\
\

### Want to give a cool and creative name for your senior living sales contests?

\
\

### Want to give out some creative awards to your top-performing communities? Get ideas from this blog below:

\
\

### Looking for creative and funny sales team names?

[25 Creative Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/25-creative-sales-team-names/)\

[34 Funny Sales Team Names](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/funny-sales-team-names/)\

\
\

### How will you communicate the contest to your participants?

Once you have a perfect contest idea and a suitable name for it, focus on communicating it effectively to your participants. Follow our [sales contest communication template](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/) to announce your contest.

\
\

### Searching for some exciting themes for your contest?
Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics, and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - [Contest Theme Generator](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator)

\
\

### Searching for award names and prizing ideas to give out to your contest winners? Read these articles below:

[creative employee recognition awards.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/)\

[23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/)

\
\
