---
title: 'Different types of sales closing techniques and why they work'
og_title: 'Different types of sales closing techniques and why they work'
description: Explore different kinds of popular sales closing techniques and why they work
og_description: Explore different kinds of popular sales closing techniques and why they work
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 264
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -264
slug: "different-types-of-sales-closing-techniques-and-why-they-work"
featured_image: "/images/blog-264/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2022-05-17T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: [Sales, Sales Effectiveness]
relatedBlogs : ["Sales Close Rate: Definition, Industry Benchmarks, Formula to calculate, and tips to improve",
  "Top 6 Sales Methodologies for Closing Complex Deals",
  "The Puppy Dog Close Technique: Let your customers experience your brand personally",
  "4 Techniques To Build Rapport Virtually",
  "The Ultimate Guide to Active Listening in Sales",
  "MQL vs SQL: What are they and How do They Differ?",
  "How to effectively drive up-selling and cross-selling?",
  "The 6 Buyer Personas and how to train your team to sell to them",
  "7 Selling Skills that are Essential to Ace Remote Sales"]

---

Just like how doctors take an oath before they begin their practice, sales professionals also take a secret oath before starting their sales career. They take an oath that they will “always be closing”.

But what does it really mean to ***‘Always Be Closing‘***? Does it mean that you have to be an aggressive salesperson perpetually pushing your [prospective customers](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/mql-vs-sql-what-are-they-and-how-do-they-differ/) to close the deals?
 
Not necessarily.
 
You could be,
 
* A relationship builder, and [believe in developing strong personal and professional relationships with prospects](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/4-techniques-to-build-rapport-virtually/)
* Or a hard worker who is always willing to go that extra mile for the customer
* Or a lone wolf who likes to do things your own way (a rule-breaking cowboy)
* Or a problem solver focusing more on customer service

Irrespective of what kind of a sales rep you are, it doesn’t make you a great one if you haven’t mastered the art of closing. The months or weeks of hard work put into prospecting a client will go down the drain if you don’t close the deal.

Closing is the final stretch you need to cross to bring home the bacon. At SmartWinnr, we look at the sale closes as more of a science than art. Because in order to close a deal successfully you need to know,

* The amount of nurturing that you need to do before closing a sale
* The right time to push the close
* The right way to approach the close etc

In order to help you learn this science of closing, we have brought to you various sales closing techniques that will help you not only to [close deals faster](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/top-6-sales-methodologies-for-closing-complex-deals/) but to close them more efficiently.

\
\

### **Sales Closing Techniques**

\
\

### **1. Now or Never Close**

In this [sales close](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-close-rate/) technique, salespeople make an offer that includes a special benefit that prompts immediate purchase. 

For example:

* “This is the last one at this price.”
* "We’ve got a 20% discount just for customers who sign up today.”
* “If you commit to buy now, I can fast track you to the front of the implementation queue.”

**Why this technique works?** This technique works because it creates a sense of urgency. It can help overcome inertia when a prospect wants to buy but for some reason isn't pulling the trigger. 

It's also a tried and true method for closing a sale over the phone/ virtual call/ an in-person meeting because you have the customer's undivided attention in real-time. Of course, you should always establish value before offering a discount or promotion.

\
\

### **2. Summary Closes**

In this closing technique, salespeople reiterate the items the customer is hopefully purchasing (stressing the value and benefits) in an effort to get the prospect to sign. 

**For example:** *“So we have the [brand name] washing machine with brushless motor, the 8-year comprehensive guarantee, and our free delivery and installation service. When would be a good time to deliver?”*
 
**Why this technique works?** By summarizing previously agreed-upon points into one impressive package, you're helping prospects visualize what they're truly getting out of the deal.

\
\

### **3. Sharp Angle Closes**

Prospects often ask for price reductions or add-ons because they know they have the upper hand and they also know that you expect it. If you have approval from your sales manager to do so, try the sharp angle close technique to catch these prospects by surprise.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>For example, when they ask, "Could you add on a few extra hours of onboarding at a discounted rate?" reply, "Sure. But if I do that for you, will you sign the contract today?" </p>
  </div>
</div>

**Why this technique works?** The surprise factor in this close is the main reason why this works. It's likely that your clients won't be expecting this response. First, because you agreed to their request. And second, because you've proposed closing the sale that day itself.

\
\

### **4. Assumptive Closes**

This closing technique draws on the power of positive thinking. It requires you to believe from the first piece of email outreach that you will close this deal. This can have an incredible effect on the rest of the [sales process.](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-measure-and-improve-the-effectiveness-of-your-sales-process/)

What's important here is for you to closely monitor your prospect's interest, engagement, and objections throughout. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>For example, </p>
    <ul>
      <li>After a call or meeting, ask, "Did this presentation align with your expectations?"</li>
      <li>If you've just provided them with new information about your product or service, ask, "Does this sound like something that would be valuable to your company? Does this meet your specific need or pain point?"</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

**Why will this technique work?** By keeping a good intent from the start in the sales process, you'll bring authority and direction to the process that wouldn't be there otherwise. And this positivity is going to increase, to a great extent, your chance of closing the deals.

\
\

### **5. Take Away Closes**

When a toy is taken away from a kid, they'll want it more than ever. Use this similar psychological practice on your prospects.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>If they're balking on price, remove a feature or service and present the discounted offer to them. </p>
  </div>
</div>

**Why will this technique work?** When you use this approach, it's likely that they'll be thinking about the part you removed rather than the discounted price. And after that, whether they agree to take the discounted version of the product or the full version of the product, it will be a win-win for both of you. 

\
\

### **6. Soft Closes**

The soft close is a way to show your prospect the benefits of your product and then ask a low-impact question to ascertain whether they'd be open to learning more.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>For example, you could ask– "If I told you I could reduce widget maintenance by 25% and increase widget productivity by 15%, would that align with your company goals?" </p>
    <p>Now you've clearly stated the benefits without making any demands or sudden requests.</p>
  </div>
</div>

**Why this technique works?** This way you will be able to slightly remove their need to commit to you. And this also gives you more time to learn about the customer’s business needs.

\
\

### **7. Puppy Dog Close**

It’s one of the simplest, yet most effective sales closing techniques. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>To enact it, you <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/puppy-dog-close-technique-let-your-customers-experience-your-brand-personally/">just need to allow your prospects to test drive/ try your product, whatever it might be.</a></p>
  </div>
</div>
 
Why this technique works? The actual feeling of possessing or trying the thing they like makes them happy and satisfied. As a result, they will want to buy it from you.

\
\

### **8. The Ben Franklin Close**

Historians say Ben Franklin made decisions in the following way: he created a list with two columns (pros and cons) and based his decision on the longer column.
 
In a similar way, if you have clients who are analytical by their nature, you’ll benefit from compiling lists of your product’s advantages (and disadvantages too) and then letting your customers make their own decision based on their priorities and preferences.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>There are four steps to Ben Franklin's sales closing technique:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Present the idea of making a pros-and-cons list.</li>
      <li>Let the client come up with a list of pros and cons. Offer guidance wherever required.</li>
      <li>Highlight other valuable pros they might not have considered.</li>
      <li>Ask thoughtful closing questions.</li>
    </ol>
    <p><b>Example Script:</b> I understand you might want to give this some more thought. And given how important this decision is, I understand where you’re coming from. Still, you must understand whether the benefits of this <b>[offering]</b> outweigh the cons. Can we put together a comparison of those together to help you make a rational decision?</p>
  </div>
</div>
 
**Why this technique works?** By letting [buyers](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/6-buyer-personas-and-how-to-train-your-team-to-sell/) evaluate the pros and cons by themselves, you eliminate their reasons for not buying your product.
Plus, the Ben Franklin close technique acts as a need vs. want checklist. If your offering covers all (or most of) their needs, you have a good chance of making a sale.

\
\

### **9. Empathy Close**

Not every deal has to be closed using leverage or pressure.
 
Sometimes it’s good to take the empathy route.
 
The Empathy Closing technique allows you to use emotion to understand the situation that your prospect is in. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>Here is how you can take the empathy route of closing</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Put yourselves in the customer’s shoes and genuinely understand their problem.</li>
      <li>Assure them that you care about solving their problem and present the best solution at the best price possible to them</li>
      <li>And if the prospect still tells you that he/she isn’t ready to make a decision, then sometimes it's good to give them more time to think rather than pushing for a close.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

**Why this technique works?** Empathizing with your prospects can help build a special bond with the prospect which can be useful in the long run.

\
\

### **10. Hard Close**

This one is exactly what it sounds like: the high-pressure, high-intensity “hard” close that’s long been associated with salespeople.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>It’s not always appropriate, but it’s often effective when the situation calls for clarity over ambiguity (like when a lead shows signs of life for months, but never actually pulls the trigger). Use it sensitively and cautiously, but always keep it in your sales arsenal.</p>
  </div>
</div>
 
**Why this technique works?** This technique of directly pushing someone into buying is a real tough challenge, especially for a newbie. It requires tons of courage and confidence from the sales rep but when used tactically on the right customer at right time, it will surely yield good results.

\
\

### **11. The Objection Close**
 
Once you have made sure that your prospect has understood everything about your product and what it has to offer, try closing the deal by asking them for any [objections they might have](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/10-effective-techniques-to-overcome-sales-objections/) with the product.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p><b>Example Script:</b> Mr. Wilson, is there any reason whatsoever on why we shouldn’t proceed with this deal?</p>
  </div>
</div>
 
**Why this technique works?** This approach allows the prospect to raise any final objections or doubts that they need to clear up without saying no to the deal.

\
\

### **12. Take away close**

Consider this scenario: you’re on the verge of closing a deal, but the customer is reluctant to proceed at the last moment. He/she has suddenly come up with complaints in order to drive a bargain. 

A novice salesman here would comply with all their complaints and offer whatever they ask in the hope of closing the deal. On the other hand, an experienced salesperson would play a simple reverse psychology trick on the customers called “The Take Away Close”.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>Using this Take-Away closing technique, the sales rep offers to withdraw the whole deal from the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-overcome-prospects-resistance/">prospect</a> in order to push them to accept the offer. This technique can be used when you have a very well-established and popular brand. It can be used on the prospects who happen to take up a lot of your time and still don’t make any progress in the buying process.</p>
  </div>
</div>

**Why this technique works?** The reason why it’s effective is– letting go of a potential client shows how confident you’re in your product. This gets the prospect to reconsider the good product that he/she may be missing out on.

\
\

### Want to learn about the sales close rates across various industries? Check out this blog below:

[Sales Close Rate: Definition, Industry Benchmarks, Formula to calculate, and tips to improve](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-close-rate/)

\
\

### Here are 6 sales methodologies that help in closing complex deals

[Top 6 Sales Methodologies for Closing Complex Deals](https://smartwinnr.com/post/top-6-sales-methodologies-for-closing-complex-deals/)

\
\

### Learn how puppy dog close technique helps you to easily close more sales

[The Puppy Dog Close Technique: Let your customers experience your brand personally](https://smartwinnr.com/post/puppy-dog-close-technique-let-your-customers-experience-your-brand-personally/)

\
\

### Here is a sales cold calling script for SDRs

[Sales Cold Call Script for SDRs](https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-cold-call-script-for-sdrs/)

\
\

### Learn about the open-ended sales questions that you can ask to get your prospects talking

[Open-ended sales questions that your reps can use to get the prospects talking](https://smartwinnr.com/post/open-ended-sales-questions-that-your-reps-can-use-to-get-prospects-talking/)

\
\

### Learn how to build rapport with your prospects virtually

[4 Techniques To Build Rapport Virtually](https://smartwinnr.com/post/4-techniques-to-build-rapport-virtually/)

\
\

### Here is an ultimate guide that helps you practice active listening in sales

[The Ultimate Guide to Active Listening in Sales](https://smartwinnr.com/post/the-ultimate-guide-to-active-listening-in-sales/)

\
\

### Learn about the sales and marketing qualified leads and what is the right way to pass them from the marketing team to the sales team

[MQL vs SQL: What are they and How do They Differ?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/mql-vs-sql-what-are-they-and-how-do-they-differ/)

\
\

### Learn about the goldilocks effect and how it helps to close more sales

[What is the Goldilocks Effect and how to apply it in your business?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/what-is-the-goldilocks-effect-and-how-to-apply-it-in-your-business/)

\
\

### Learn about the techniques to successfully upsell and cross-sell

[How to effectively drive up-selling and cross-selling?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-effectively-drive-up-selling-and-cross-selling/)

\
\

### Learn how to overcome your prospects’ resistance

[How to overcome Prospects’ Resistance?](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-overcome-prospects-resistance/)

\
\

### Learn about various buyer personas and how can you customize your selling style to appeal to them

[The 6 Buyer Personas and how to train your team to sell to them](https://smartwinnr.com/post/6-buyer-personas-and-how-to-train-your-team-to-sell/)

\
\

### Here are some important skills that you absolutely need to have in order to ace remote selling

[7 Selling Skills that are Essential to Ace Remote Sales](https://smartwinnr.com/post/7-selling-skills-that-are-essential-to-ace-remote-sales/)

\
\