---
title: 'How to narrow the sales performance gap?'
og_title: 'How to narrow the sales performance gap?'
description: Want an all-star sales team? Instead of desperately trying to hire only the top-performing sales reps, learn how to uplift your mid-tier and low-tier employees and reduce the performance gap in your sales team
og_description: Want an all-star sales team? Instead of desperately trying to hire only the top-performing sales reps, learn how to uplift your mid-tier and low-tier employees and reduce the performance gap in your sales team
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 267
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -267
slug: "how-to-narrow-the-sales-performance-gap"
featured_image: "/images/blog-267/image1.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2022-06-20T07:30:32+08:00'
tags: [Sales, Sales effectiveness]
relatedBlogs : ['Pre Training Survey Questions',
  'Post Training Survey Questions',
  'Helping Sales Reps Maximize their Unique Strengths',
  'Sales Pros – Here are some useful tips for you to sell anything to anyone',
  'Different types of sales closing techniques and why they work',
  'Top 6 Sales Methodologies for Closing Complex Deals',
  'Sales Cold Call Script for SDRs',
  'Open-ended sales questions that your reps can use to get the prospects talking',
  '4 Techniques To Build Rapport Virtually',
  'The Ultimate Guide to Active Listening in Sales',
  'MQL vs SQL: What are they and How do They Differ?',
  'How to overcome Prospects’ Resistance?',
  '7 Selling Skills that are Essential to Ace Remote Sales']

---

If you analyze your sales team and based on each individual’s sales performance spread your salespeople across a spectrum of performance from left to right, you’ll find that

* Approximately 20% of the people will get placed at the extreme left. These are your star performers.
* Approximately 10% will get placed at the extreme right. These are the low performers
* And the remaining 70% in the middle are your average sales reps

The star performers are highly enthusiastic about their job and they have the capability to easily exceed the targets that you set. So, you don’t really need to be concerned about these guys.

However, people hovering in the mid-tier or low-tier might need some help to meet their goals. 

\
\

### **An all-star roaster doesn’t mean seamless sales**

Companies usually attempt to solve their stalled sales growth problem by hiring star sales players. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>But this isn’t a very feasible solution because of the reasons stated below:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Sales is a highly competitive field, and only a few top-tier salespeople are looking for a job at any given time.</li>
      <li>A rep shines the best where they get the balance between comfort and challenge. So a star employee who exceeded their quota regularly in their old company will not automatically perform well when they transfer to yours.</li>
      <li>What’s more, you need to compete with other companies who are also looking to attract the best talent for their business.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>

So, instead of getting more help from outside, focus on developing the existing talent. The best way to develop a high-performing team is by growing the potential of the middle-tier and low-tier sales representatives.

In this blog, you’ll learn, 

* How to uplift your average sales reps
* And how to reduce the performance gap between your star sales reps and average sales reps 

\
\

### **Ways to narrow the sales performance gap**

\

### **1. Analyze performances and identify the people who need help** 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>The first and the most important step to narrowing the sales performance gap in your sales team is to analyze the performance of each team member. </p>
    <p>Today, you have got various tools available in the market which automatically process the performance data and give you an accurate and intuitive analysis of each rep’s sales performance.</p>
  </div>
</div>

One such tool is SmartWinnr. [SmartWinnr](https://www.smartwinnr.com/) integrates seamlessly with your CRM system, pulls in the sales performance data automatically, and then analyzes and produces intuitive reports of the sales performance of your team.

Now, once you have the data pertaining to each rep’s performance then you need to identify the people whose performance needs to be improved. Then Schedule a one-on-one with those people so that you can talk to them and

* Understand the problem from their perspective 
* And understand how would they want to receive help to improve themselves

\
\

### **2. Conduct one-on-ones**

Next, conduct meaningful one-on-one sessions with those people whose performance needs to be improved. 
 
In these one-on-ones, make sure that you have a genuine and purposeful conversation. You can use [Coaching Templates](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-coaching-template-for-managers/) here to keep everything structured and focused.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>In the meeting, make sure that you are ready with the performance scorecards and analytics of the reps. Based on that performance data, discuss</p>
    <ul>
      <li>The areas where they are good</li>
      <li>The areas where they are lagging behind</li>
      <li>The reason why they are lagging behind</li>
      <li>What are some of the major issues or obstacles that they face?</li>
      <li>How can you help them to improve their performance?</li>
      <li>What is their area of interest?</li>
      <li>What would motivate them to push themselves to work hard?</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Once you talk to your reps and get these details, you can then go ahead and create customized action plans for each one of the reps.</p>
  </div>
</div>

\
\

### **3. Ensure coaching is embedded in the routine**

Once you have held the one-on-one meeting with your sales reps and agreed upon an action plan to help them improve, the next step is to provide ongoing training and/ or [coaching](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/deal-coaching-question-that-you-should-ask-to-help-your-reps-to-close-more-deals/) to them. 

This helps you to instill in them, 

* The right knowledge
* The right skills
* And good habits 

And, as a result of this, you will be able to improve their performance

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>So, make sure that you,</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Schedule a training session once every 3 months so that you can upskill your reps regularly and keep them up-to-date with the latest knowledge and skills</li>
      <li>
        Schedule 1-on-1 <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-coach-your-salespeople-into-sales-champions/">coaching</a> sessions every week to 
        <ul>
          <li> Review the deals in play </li>
          <li> Review the opportunities stalled </li>
          <li> Complete a thorough pipeline review</li>
          <li> And conduct role-plays to improve their sales conversations</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>This way you can ensure </p>
    <ul>
      <li>A pinpointed and effective knowledge transfer </li> 
      <li>Improved sales performance across the board in the sales team </li>
      <li>And effective management of the pipeline</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Once you talk to your reps and get these details, you can then go ahead and create customized action plans for each one of the reps.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-bottom20 ml-margin-bottom20"> <b>Pro-tip:</b> Also make sure that you identify the best practices of the top performers and replicate that behavior across the team
</div>

\
\

### **4. Organize peer-to-peer mentorship programs**

If there is one thing that is more effective than the manager’s coaching, it is peer-to-peer mentorship. 
 
A powerful [peer-to-peer mentorship](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-set-up-a-strong-sales-mentorship-program/) helps to significantly boost the sales performance of your mid-tier and low-tier employees. This is because your sales reps will be more comfortable and receptive to receiving lessons from their colleagues with whom they share a good bond. This enables them to learn in a pressure-free environment. 

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>So, identify the folks performing exceptionally well and make it a point to encourage them to collaborate with the reps who could use help (those who are stuck in the middle and low ranks)</p>
    <p>Also, if the top performers are mentoring their peers, it truly gives mentees more individualized attention. And when it’s done the right way, this type of mentorship boosts performance across the board with shared best practices. </p>
    <p>In order to get the most out of peer mentorship, when it comes to narrowing the sales performance gap, it’s important to note that these meetings need to have just as much structure as 1:1s with managers. Providing top performers with coaching questions to ask their mentees on a regular basis will be necessary for optimal results.</p>
  </div>
</div>

Everyone’s needs and learning styles will obviously be different. But by consistently holding these mentorship meetings both the mentors and mentees will get used to each other and then they will be able to drive the most impactful sales performance coaching session. 

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-bottom20 ml-margin-bottom20"> <b>Pro-tip:</b> Just like any other employee, your top performers or mentors also need the motivation to carry out the mentorship program effectively. So, make sure that you gamify the mentorship program and regularly incentivize the mentors for every progress that their mentees make.
</div>

\
\

### **5. Foster a warm and nurturing environment for everyone**

Peer mentorship from top performers is only made possible when a company culture is in good shape. There must be an environment in place for actionable feedback rather than subjective criticism.

<div class="ml_special_div_blog ml-margin-bottom10">
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content ml-margin-top10 ml-margin-bottom10">
    <p>With so much visibility into everyone’s work, you need to foster an empathetic company culture more than ever before. ‘Successful <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-use-historical-data-to-drive-better-sales-conversations/">coaching</a> that leads to improved performance’ will only work when everyone feels safe and supported.</p>
    <p>If tools that make performance visible are just used to alienate folks at the bottom of the leaderboards, how will that help anyone right? </p>
    <p>So, there needs to be a sense that visibility is there for support because everyone wants to see everyone succeed. Visibility should be seen or used as a punishment by anybody.</p>
  </div>
</div>

\
\

### Want to conduct a pre-training survey to understand your trainees’ learning needs? Here are some questions that you can ask your trainees

[Pre-Training Survey Questions](https://smartwinnr.com/post/pre-training-survey-questions/)

\
\

### Want to conduct a post-training survey to understand your the impact of your training? Here are some questions that you can ask your trainees

[Post Training Survey Questions - SmartWinnr](https://smartwinnr.com/post/post-training-survey-questions/)

\
\

### Learn how to maximize the potential of your sales team

[Helping Sales Reps Maximize their Unique Strengths](https://smartwinnr.com/post/helping-sales-reps-maximize-their-unique-strengths/)

\
\

### Equip your reps with the skills they need to sell anything to anybody

[Sales Pros – Here are some useful tips for you to sell anything to anyone](https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-pros-here-are-some-useful-tips-for-you-to-sell-anything-to-anyone/)

\
\

### Learn about different kinds of sales closing techniques and why they work

[Different types of sales closing techniques and why they work](https://smartwinnr.com/post/different-types-of-sales-closing-techniques-and-why-they-work/)

\
\

### Want to learn about the sales close rates across various industries? Check out this blog below:

[Sales Close Rate: Definition, Industry Benchmarks, Formula to calculate, and tips to improve](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-close-rate/)

\
\

### Here are 6 sales methodologies that help in closing complex deals

[Top 6 Sales Methodologies for Closing Complex Deals](https://smartwinnr.com/post/top-6-sales-methodologies-for-closing-complex-deals/)

\
\

### Learn how the puppy dog close technique helps you to easily close more sales

[The Puppy Dog Close Technique: Let your customers experience your brand personally](https://smartwinnr.com/post/puppy-dog-close-technique-let-your-customers-experience-your-brand-personally/)

\
\

### Here is a sales cold calling script for SDRs

[Sales Cold Call Script for SDRs](https://smartwinnr.com/post/sales-cold-call-script-for-sdrs/)

\
\

### Learn about the open-ended sales questions that you can ask to get your prospects talking

[Open-ended sales questions that your reps can use to get the prospects talking](https://smartwinnr.com/post/open-ended-sales-questions-that-your-reps-can-use-to-get-prospects-talking/)

\
\

### Learn how to build rapport with your prospects virtually

[4 Techniques To Build Rapport Virtually](https://smartwinnr.com/post/4-techniques-to-build-rapport-virtually/)

\
\

### Here is an ultimate guide that helps you practice active listening in sales

[The Ultimate Guide to Active Listening in Sales](https://smartwinnr.com/post/the-ultimate-guide-to-active-listening-in-sales/)

\
\

### Learn about the sales and marketing qualified leads and what is the right way to pass them from the marketing team to the sales team

[MQL vs SQL: What are they and How do They Differ?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/mql-vs-sql-what-are-they-and-how-do-they-differ/)

### Learn about the goldilocks effect and how it helps to close more sales

[What is the Goldilocks Effect and how to apply it in your business?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/what-is-the-goldilocks-effect-and-how-to-apply-it-in-your-business/)

\
\

### Learn about the techniques to successfully upsell and cross-sell

[How to effectively drive up-selling and cross-selling?](https://smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-effectively-drive-up-selling-and-cross-selling/)

\
\

### Learn how to overcome your prospects’ resistance

[How to overcome Prospects’ Resistance?](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-overcome-prospects-resistance/)

\
\

### Here are some important skills that you absolutely need to have in order to ace remote selling

[7 Selling Skills that are Essential to Ace Remote Sales](https://smartwinnr.com/post/7-selling-skills-that-are-essential-to-ace-remote-sales/)

\
\
