---
title: '6 Best LMS Features for Sales Training in 2024'
og_title: '6 Best LMS Features for Sales Training in 2024'
description: Discover the top 6 LMS features essential for effective sales training. Elevate your sales team's performance with SmartWinnr's innovative solutions. Explore now.
og_description: Discover the top 6 LMS features essential for effective sales training. Elevate your sales team's performance with SmartWinnr's innovative solutions. Explore now.
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 283
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -283
slug: "6-best-lms-features-for-sales-training-in-2024"
featured_image: "/images/blog-283/6-best-lms-features-for-sales-training-in-2024.png"
isFeatured: false
date: '2024-03-18T00:49:12+05:30'
tags: [Sales, Sales Effectiveness]
relatedBlogs : ['What is the Goldilocks Effect and how to apply it in your business?',
  'How to Set Smart Goals for your Sales Team?',
  'Deal Coaching question that you should ask to help your reps to close more deals',
  'Deal Coaching Vs Skill Coaching: What’s the Difference?',
  'How can managers instill a Buyer-First mindset amongst their team members?',
  'Sales Coaching Template for Managers',
  'Coach or Manager? What does your team want?']
---

<br>

Traditional sales training methods often fall short. They are limited in engaging learners and ensuring long-term knowledge retention. Classroom-style sessions, static presentations, and printed materials fail to cater to the diverse learning and busy schedules of sales teams. Moreover, the one-size-fits-all approach lacks personalization, making it challenging in real-world scenarios. 

As a result, organizations struggle with missed sales opportunities and decreased productivity. 

So, how can you overcome this challenge? A Learning Management System (LMS) could be the solution you've been searching for. 

<h3 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">What is a Learning Management System</h3>

Many learning sessions tend to be passive. Reps find themselves spending excessive time merely staring at a screen without effectively absorbing the information. The result is a waste of both their time and your resources. 

A Learning Management System (LMS) for sales training is a specialized platform designed to facilitate and [optimize the training] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/) and development of sales teams. This type of LMS is tailored to unique needs and is equipped with features and tools that enhance their learning experience. 


#### **Why do you need an LMS for your team?**

<ul class="ml_checked_list">
  <li><p><b>Microlearning Modules</b>: It often includes modules that deliver short, focused lessons to address specific skills or knowledge gaps, making it convenient for sales reps to learn on the go.</p></li>
  <li><p><b>Sales Simulations</b>: Some LMS for sales training incorporate sales simulations or scenario-based learning. It provides a realistic environment for practicing sales techniques and strategies.</p></li>
  <li><p><b>Performance Tracking</b>: Robust analytics and tracking features enable managers to monitor performance and progress.</p></li>
  <li><p><b>Gamification Elements</b>: Gamified elements such as leaderboards, badges, and rewards are often integrated to increase engagement and motivation among sales professionals.</p></li>
  <li><p><b>Mobile Accessibility</b>: Recognizing the mobile nature of sales roles, LMS for sales training is often accessible on various devices, allowing sales reps to learn anytime, anywhere.</p></li>
  <li><p><b>Integration with Sales Tools</b>: Integration capabilities with existing sales tools, CRM systems, or other relevant software ensure seamless workflow and data synchronization.</p></li>
</ul>

<h3 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">6 Must have LMS Features</h3>

Now that you know why an LMS is necessary, it is time we keep an eye on the features too. That’s a must-have.  Why? So, your bottom line of the funnel gets the key selling points as well as a significant boost in retention.  

An LMS is more than just adding points, badges, or leaderboards; it's about 

1. Enhancing the learning experience,  

2. Increasing engagement, and  

3. Achieving tangible outcomes. 

So, let’s discuss the must have LMS features. 

#### **1. Making Sales Training Mobile: How It Works**

Salespeople are always on the move. That's why having access to training materials on their mobile devices is crucial. With a mobile-friendly learning management system (LMS), sales professionals can easily access presentations, practice sales pitches, and review training materials on their smartphones or tablets, no matter where they are.  

#### **2. Why Scalability Matters in Your LMS?**

As businesses expand, the demand for training often increases. This requires an LMS to seamlessly scale its capacity to accommodate a larger user base, additional courses, and diverse content types. 

For example, consider a tech startup experiencing exponential growth in its workforce at a rate of 10% year over year. With a scalable LMS in place, the company can seamlessly accommodate the influx of new hires. In short, scalability ensures that your LMS can grow alongside your organization, whether you have 100 or 1000 employees. 

#### **3. Close More Deals with Gamified Learning**

Sales may not be a sport, but it's undeniably competitive. To fuel the drive of your top sales talent, an LMS with [gamification] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/gamification/) adds a winning edge. By incorporating achievements and leaderboards, gamification transforms online training. Let me explain with an example. 

Let us consider a scenario. **Sales rep A** competes on a leaderboard to secure the most deals or earn the highest scores in product knowledge quizzes. He actively engages with the training modules and achieves milestones. On the other hand, **sales rep B**, who neglects training, lags behind in performance metrics and misses out on opportunities. 

Pro Tip: Insert a [game-like feature] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/what-is-sales-gamification/) in any non-game environment to engage and motivate sales reps to achieve goals.

#### **4. Analyse Learning Behaviour**

The potential of your online training is incomplete without analytics. Analytics can help you identify trends and patterns in your team's learning behavior. Analyzing performances lets you track metrics like course completion rates, quiz scores, and engagement levels, providing valuable insights in your training. It also helps you to do data driven training needs analysis and identify areas of improvements and areas of strengths. 

#### **5. Optimized Operations with Easy Integration**

A CRM keeps the workflow seamless. Finding an LMS that easily integrates with an existing CRM needs to be at the top of the list. [SmartWinnr] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/) is one such tool.  Now you might be wondering why we should do that. To: 

1. Enhance the customer experience,  

2. Increase sales and  

3. Streamline operations.

By seamlessly connecting these two systems, sales and customer service teams have access to customer data and training resources in one centralized platform.  This real-time data exchange allows managers to track the impact of training on sales performance, identify areas for improvement, and make informed decisions to optimize training initiatives. 

#### **6. Excellent Product Support**

This step is post-purchase but unavoidable. A quality LMS prioritizes customer support after purchase to ensure seamless integration and ongoing success. The TAT should not be more than 24 hours.  

Apart from these features, a great way to measure the effectiveness of any tool is user feedback. Take feedback from your frontline users to understand their experiences and pain points.  

<h3 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Final Thoughts</h3>

Sales stand as the backbone of any sustainable business. The key lies in nurturing a well-trained sales force and ensuring a steady stream of talented, knowledgeable professionals. In the contemporary business landscape, the adoption of digital training, particularly through mobile learning, has become instrumental in achieving this goal.   

[SmartWinnr] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/) is one such platform that provides targeted learning in a completely new approach to training sales teams. Utilizing the power of AI, it helps to identify areas of improvement boosting overall sales performance. 

Ready to adopt the learning program that drives sales? Reach out to us with your query at contact@smartwinnr.com 

If your team is remote, [learn how to effectively train them.] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-deliver-training-to-your-remote-sales-staff/)

[Click here] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/customer-stories/polycom-laura-welch-interview/) to read how Polycom runs their sales training program through SmartWinnr 

#### **Looking for a platform to automate the process of delivering training sessions?**

Explore SmartWinnr’s [SmartFeeds] (https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/) to help you create microlearning feeds and deliver them to your 

learners through the SmartWinnr mobile app regularly

#### **Want to learn more about targeted learning? Read the below articles**

[How to Convert a PowerPoint Presentation into Microlearning Content?] (https://smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-convert-a-powerpoint-presentation-into-microlearning-content/) 

[Microlearning- An effective way to train millennials] (https://smartwinnr.com/post/microlearning-an-effective-way-to-train-millennials/) 

[Use Micro-Learning to Turbo-Charge your Sales Team] (https://smartwinnr.com/post/use-micro-learning-to-turbo-charge-your-sales-team/) 