---
title: '6 Must Watch Funny Sales Videos'
og_title: '6 Must Watch Funny Sales Videos'
description: Discover 6 funny sales videos for valuable sales lessons and laughs! Elevate your team's spirits and skills with humor-infused training. Laugh & learn now! 
og_description: Discover 6 funny sales videos for valuable sales lessons and laughs! Elevate your team's spirits and skills with humor-infused training. Laugh & learn now! 
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 284
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -284
slug: "6-must-watch-funny-sales-videos"
featured_image: "/images/blog-284/6-must-watch-funnysalesvideos.gif"
isFeatured: false
date: '2024-04-26T00:51:00+05:30'
tags: [Sales, Sales Effectiveness]
relatedBlogs : ['What is the Goldilocks Effect and how to apply it in your business?',
  'How to Set Smart Goals for your Sales Team?',
  'Deal Coaching question that you should ask to help your reps to close more deals',
  'Deal Coaching Vs Skill Coaching: What’s the Difference?',
  'How can managers instill a Buyer-First mindset amongst their team members?',
  'Sales Coaching Template for Managers',
  'Coach or Manager? What does your team want?']
---

<br>

<h3 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Introduction</h3>

They say laughter is the best medicine. You're sitting at your desk, drowning in a sea of spreadsheets and sales reports, when suddenly, a video pops up on your screen. Within moments, you find yourself doubled over with laughter. Sales is often associated with pressure and stress; a refreshing break is much needed.

After multiple searches, below is a list of some funny sales videos. Feel free to take notes from these examples for your upcoming sales meetings (or what to avoid when giving your pitch). Go ahead and have a laugh!


They say laughter is the best medicine. You're sitting at your desk, drowning in a sea of spreadsheets and sales reports, when suddenly, a video pops up on your screen. Within moments, you find yourself doubled over with laughter. Sales is often associated with pressure and stress; a refreshing break is much needed.

After multiple searches, below is a list of some funny sales videos. Feel free to take notes from these examples for your upcoming sales meetings (or what to avoid when giving your pitch). Go ahead and have a laugh!

 <!-- #### **1. The Iconic Sell Me This Pen** -->
 #### **2. A better pitch than Don Draper?**

In the movie [The Wolf of WallStreet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9UspZGJ-TrI)  there's an iconic scene where Jordan Belfort, played by Leonardo DiCaprio, challenges his colleagues to sell him a pen. The scene highlights the importance of effective sales techniques and showcases Belfort's charisma and persuasion skills. It's a masterclass in salesmanship, demonstrating the art of creating demand and highlighting the unique features and benefits of a product, even something as simple as a pen.

#### **2. A better pitch than Don Draper?**

In the TV series [Mad Men](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRbEg5HosBo)Don Draper delivers a poignant pitch for the Kodak Carousel slide projector that goes beyond product features. He taps into nostalgia, highlighting the device's ability to transport people back to cherished memories captured in photographs. It's a testament to the power of storytelling in sales, motivating sales reps to sell not just a product but an experience.
[Link Text](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=funnysalesvideos&utm_campaign=funnysalesvideos#/sales-contest-template/industry)

#### **3. Up-selling Genius like Eugene Levy**

In the movie "Serendipity," Eugene Levy a sales rep at Hermes store, takes the opportunity to upsell. When John Cusack's character shows up enquiring about a billing history, Eugene, turns it into a [sales opportunity](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kNepR8njvT8). By suggesting items like a tie and then upsellig him a suit, he not only demonstrates his quick thinking but also showcases the art of suggestive selling. A valuable skill for sales reps.

#### **4. Always Be Closing**

In the iconic [Always Be Closing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w7y6EOGY87U) (ABC) sales scene from the movie "Glengarry Glen Ross." Alec Baldwin's character delivers a speech to a group of struggling real estate salesmen. He emphasizes the importance of closing deals and warns them of the consequences of failure. Baldwin's character uses aggressive language and intimidation tactics to instill fear and urgency in the sales team. The scene is a powerful depiction of the [high-pressure environment](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/its-time-to-move-from-always-be-closing-to-always-be-helping/?utm_source=blog&utm_medium=funnysalesvideoblog&utm_campaign=funnysalesvideoblog)of sales and the tactics employed to achieve success in the industry. 💡Pro Tip- You don't have to create high pressure, instead create sales contest to motivate your sales team. Design your [Sales Contest in 3 simple clicks.](https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/sales-contest-template/industry)

#### **5. Laugh and Learn from Tommy Boy Sales Pitch**

The movie- [Tommy Boy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=S2XvxDaIwCw&ab_channel=Movieclips), featuring the comedic duo David Spade and Chris Farley. Farley's character delivers a side-splittingly terrible sales pitch for his supposed incredible brakes. The scene serves as a cautionary tale on the perils of overselling, reminding us how it can easily backfire. The highlight? Farley's character goes all out, even setting a car on fire, only to wrap it up with the punchline: "All because you want to save a few extra pennies...". A perfect example of how humor can lighten the mood, even in sales training sessions.


