---
title: "How can Trainers Use AI Sales Role plays to Train MRs Better Detailing and Closing Techniques"
og_title: "How can Trainers Use AI Sales Role plays to Train MRs Better Detailing and Closing Techniques"
description: "Discover how AI sales coaching can improve MR’s detailing and closing techniques. Learn about personalized, data-driven insights and practical applications of AI role play to boost sales effectiveness and drive revenue."
og_description: "Discover how AI sales coaching can improve MR’s detailing and closing techniques. Learn about personalized, data-driven insights and practical applications of AI role play to boost sales effectiveness and drive revenue."
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 293
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: contact@smartwinnr.com
weight: -293
slug: "how-can-trainers-use-ai-sales-role-plays-to-train-mrs-better-detailing-and-closing-techniques"
featured_image: "/images/blog-293/how-can-trainers-use-ai-sales-role-play-to-train-mrs-better-detailing-and-closing-techniques.png"
isFeatured: false
date: '2024-09-18T00:51:00+05:30'
tags: [Sales, Sales Effectiveness, Closing Techniques in Sales , Skills Gap, Performance Tracker, Sales Techniques for Closing, Time Management Activities  ]
relatedBlogs : ['What is the Goldilocks Effect and how to apply it in your business?',
  'How to Set Smart Goals for your Sales Team?',
  'Deal Coaching question that you should ask to help your reps to close more deals',
  'Deal Coaching Vs Skill Coaching: What’s the Difference?',
  'How can managers instill a Buyer-First mindset amongst their team members?',
  'Sales Coaching Template for Managers',
  'Coach or Manager? What does your team want?']

---
<br>  

In general, companies investing in sales training are 57% more effective than those who don’t. Let’s break that down with a quick calculation:   

<ul>
    <li>
      <p><b>57% Effectiveness Boost:</b> If a company A, that doesn’t invest in sales training achieves 100 sales, a company B that does will achieve 157. 
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Yearly Impact: </b>Suppose the average sales per year for company A that doesn’t invest in training is 500. With a 57% increase, company B investing in sales training would see 785 sales annually. 
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Revenue Implications: </b> If each sale brings in $10,000, that 57% boost translates to an additional $2.85 million in revenue per year. 
 </p>
    </li>
</ul>

<p>For pharma industry, medical representatives (MRs) should be trained in effective detailing and closing skills. But even the best MRs can struggle without the right practice. So, how can trainers make sure their MRs aren’t just good but great?  </p>


The answer: Investing in <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/two-way-ai-role-plays/" target="_blank" class="">AI sales role play. </a> 


<h5 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Challenges MRs Face in Pharma Sales </h5>

Pharmaceutical sales aren’t your run-of-the-mill sales job. MRs should articulate complex product messaging, navigate strict regulations, and build trust with HCPs(who can spot an MR from a mile away). Statistics show that many salespeople, including those in pharma, struggle with:   

<ul>
    <li>
      <p>Probing: 37% of MRs find it difficult to ask the right questions as per the HCP’s needs.  
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Clinical Evidence: MRs find it difficult to deliver effective presentations on clinical paper/evidence. 
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p>Closing: For 28% of MRs, closing skills are below par.  
 </p>
    </li>
</ul>

These challenges are even more pronounced. AI sales role play can be a great way to help MRs do better detailing and closing. 


&#128161;To know further on AI Sales Coaching, read our  <a href="https://docsend.dropbox.com/view/qqaczfsaed7fatr4" target="_blank" class="">whitepaper. </a> 

<h3 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">How can Trainers Use AI Sales Coaching Data to Train MRs?</h3>

<h5 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Personalized Training at Scale </h5>

AI sales coaching excels in delivering personalized training at scale. Every MR has unique strengths and weaknesses.<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/5-reasons-to-use-ai-role-play-in-your-sales-process/" target="_blank" class="">AI sales role play </a>  offers tailored coaching experiences that adapt to individual needs. 

<ul>
    <li>
      <p><b>Data-Driven Insights: </b> Trainers can gather extensive data from each training session. This includes MR’s responses, response time taken, keywords etc 
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Customized Scenarios:</b>Using this data, trainers can set up customized role-play scenarios targeting areas for improvement.
      <div>
      For example, if an MR struggles with handling objections, creating such scenarios repeatedly can challenge and improve this skill. 
      </div>   
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Continuous Feedback: </b> No more waiting for feedback that comes too late. AI sales coaching offers instant, detailed insights after every interaction, so MRs can fine-tune their messaging. 
 </p>
    </li>
</ul>


<h5 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Enhancing Detailing Techniques </h5>

In pharmaceutical industry, detailing is crucial. MRs need to convey complex medical information clearly and persuasively.<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/upskill-your-sales-team-with-ai-role-play-revolution" target="_blank" class="">AI role play </a> can significantly improve these skills by:  

<ul>
    <li>
      <p><b>Simulating Real-World Interactions:</b> AI sales role play can replicate interactions with HCP, including tough questions and objections. This provides MRs with a risk-free environment to practice and refine their detailing techniques. 
 
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Improving Message Delivery: </b> With the evaluation shared during AI sales role play, trainers can analyze how MRs deliver their messages. Offering suggestions for improvement. It helps simplify jargon and highlight key product benefits, enhancing message clarity and impact. 
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Reinforcement Through Repetition: </b> Mastery comes with practice. AI role play enables MRs to repeat their detailing techniques, reinforcing key points and improving overall delivery. 
 </p>
    </li>
</ul>

<h5 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Closing More Deals, One AI Role Play at a Time </h5>

Trainers might agree to this - closing a deal in pharma sales is often more challenging than threading a needle in the dark. But with AI sales role play, MRs can sharpen their closing skills : 

<ul>
    <li>
      <p><b>Analyzing Past Interactions: </b> AI sales coaching helps trainers analyze past sales interactions. Identifying patterns that lead to success. Trainers can set a date till when the history of attempts can be available.  
</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Mastering Objection Handling:</b>Closing often means navigating a minefield of objections by HCP. AI role play helps MRs practice handling objections until they’re pro.  

</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Perfecting the Conversation:</b> AI sales coaching provides detailed feedback on the effectiveness of closing conversations, suggesting tweaks that could be the difference between a yes and a no.  
 </p>
    </li>
</ul>

<h5 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Trainers Using AI Sales Coaching Data for Continuous Improvement </h5>

With <b>AI sales coaching </b>, trainers can track an MR’s performance over time, identifying trends and making adjustments as needed.  

<ul>
    <li>
      <p><b>Progress Reports:</b> AI sales coaching platforms churn out detailed progress reports that highlight what’s working and what’s not. Trainers can use these insights to tailor future sessions, focusing on the areas that need the most attention. 

</p>
    </li>
    <li>
      <p><b>Benchmarking: </b>Wonder how MRs can stack up against others? AI sales role play allows for benchmarking against industry standards or peer performance. Helping MRs see where they shine and where there’s room for improvement. 
         
</p>
    </li>
</ul>
 
Note: Research by <a href="https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/growth-marketing-and-sales/our-insights/ai-powered-marketing-and-sales-reach-new-heights-with-generative-ai" target="_blank" class="">McKinsey</a>  states that companies that invest in AI are seeing a revenue uplift of <b>3-15%</b> and a sales <b>ROI</b> uplift of <b>10- 20% </b>. 


<h3 class="ml-bold-text ml-margin-top-bottom20">Conclusion </h3>

AI sales coaching platforms like <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/two-way-ai-role-plays/" target="_blank" class="">SmartWinnr AI</a>  can enhance the effectiveness of MRs. By leveraging AI sales role play to provide personalized, data-driven coaching, trainers can help MRs master detailing techniques, close more deals, and continuously improve. 

If you are interested to learn more, drop us a line at <a href="mailto:contact@smartwinnr.com" target="_blank" class=""><span>contact@smartwinnr.com</span></a> 


<br/>
Read more blogs on AI Sales Coaching: 


<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-re-certify-your-medical-reps-faster-with-ai-role-plays" target="_blank" class="">How to Re-certify your Medical Reps Faster with AI Role-plays </a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/upskill-your-sales-team-with-ai-role-play-revolution/" target="_blank" class="">Upskill Your Sales Team with AI Role Play Revolution </a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/5-reasons-to-use-ai-role-play-in-your-sales-process" target="_blank" class="">5 Reasons to Use AI Role Play in Your Sales Process  </a>