---
title: 'Sales Contest Communication Template'
og_title: Sales Contest Communication Template
description: Launching a sales contest? Communicate it effectively with your team with these sample email templates.
og_description: Launching a sales contest? Communicate it effectively with your team with these sample email templates.
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 45
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -45
slug: "/sales-contest-communication-template"
featured_image: "/images/blog-45/45.sales-contest-communication-template.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2019-09-23T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests"]
relatedBlogs : ["Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "25 Creative Sales Team Names","23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "8 Tips to Create your Sales Contests around March Madness", "Creative Employee Recognition Award Names", "How to Launch a Sales Contest", "‘Work from Home Warriors’: Sales Training Game for Remote Sales Teams", "Funny Sales Team Names"]
---

Are you planning to implement a sales contest for your sales department? At a minimum, you’ll need to follow these 3 vital rules:

1. Stay on top of communications, so your team keeps the competition top of mind. 

2. Communicate all the contest rules simply and clearly, so that your team understands how to win.

3. Mention the rewards that the winners of the contest are going to receive. This sparks the interest of the contestants and motivates them to participate in the contest.

Following these rules to communicate your contest effectively with your participants prior to its launch. If you are using email communication at your office, then here is a template you can use to effectively announce the launch of your next contest.

Looking for creative sales contest names? Read our articles: 

<a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/top-20-sales-contest-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Top 20 Sales Contest Names</a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-names-in-hindi/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Sales contest names in Hindi</a>

<br>

## **Email Template for Sales Contest Launch**

**Subject**: Sales contest for [Month competition will occur] / [Behavior competition will focus on]

**Body**: We are happy to announce that we are kicking off a [department name] initiative called the [contest name]! (<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/top-20-sales-contest-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">See other interesting sales contest names that you can use</a>). The goal of this contest is to [contest goal]. So, brace yourselves for an exciting competition. Below are the details of it:

**Contest Starts**: [Date]

**Contest Ends**: [Date]

**How to win**: The winning [team/employee] will have the [metrics for winning, i.e., the highest percentage of appointments, quickest turnaround in service cases, etc.] by [time period of competition]. All percentages and goals are tracked within [name of your sales contest mobile app]. 

**Contest Prize**:

The winning [team/employee] will win [incentive]

**Keeping track of the Progress of the Game**:

The contest results will be updated on a leaderboard which can be accessed in the [Give the link of the sales contest app leaderboard] mobile app

Feel free to write to us in case you have any questions, suggestions or feedback about the contest.

Wishing you all the best!

Thank you

<br>

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title">Example Email 1: New product launch, 1 Quarter, Number of Products Sold</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Subject</span>: Sales Contest for driving the Sales of the Brand New SX500</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Body</span>: We are happy to announce that we are kicking off a sales initiative called Sales Olympics Competition! The goal of this contest is to create some fun around driving the sales of SX500. So, brace yourselves for an exciting sales journey. Below are the details of it:</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Contest Starts:</span> 1-April 2019</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Contest Ends:</span> 30-June-2019</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">How to win:</span> The winning sales executive will have the highest number of SX500s sold by the end of June. All the numbers, percentages, and goals can be tracked within the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">SmartWinnr</a> app.</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Contest Prizes:</span></p>
    <p>The winning salesperson will get to have lunch with the CEO (and bragging rights). And, the winner also receives a gift card of $250 from the CEO.</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Who is Eligible?</span></p>
    <p>Most people receiving this email are eligible, with the only exception being the management team, who will keep an eye on the leaderboard. Attached is a full list of participants, if you’re interested.</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Keeping Track of Standings:</span></p>
    <p>The contest results will be updated on a leaderboard which can be accessed in the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">SmartWinnr</a> mobile app.</p>
    <p>Feel free to write to us in case you have any questions, suggestions or feedback about the contest.</p>
    <p>Wishing you all the best!</p>
    <p>Thank you</p>
  </div>
</div>
<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title">Email Example 2: Year-End Sales Contest, 1 Quarter in Q4, Total Sales Revenue</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Subject</span>: Year-end sales contest -- The holiday contest</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Body</span>: Attention salespeople! It's time for our annual sales contest. This time our focus will be to increase total sales revenue.</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Contest Starts:</span> October 1st</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Contest Ends:</span> October 31st</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Prize:</span> Anyone for a Caribbean cruise? The winner of this holiday sales contest will receive two tickets for a week-long Caribbean cruise aboard the Doe Queen.</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Rules of Contest:</span>It's simple. Whoever achieves the highest sales between January 1st and March 31st wins a trip on the cruise with all expenses paid. Even if you don't win the first prize, you may qualify for one of the several consolation prizes worth hundreds of dollars. For more information on the consolation prizes, refer to the [Enter the link to the list of consolation prizes].</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Keeping Track of Standings:</span></p>
    <p>The contest results will be updated on a leaderboard which can be accessed in the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">SmartWinnr</a> mobile app.</p>
    <p>Feel free to write to us in case you have any questions, suggestions or feedback about the contest.</p>
    <p>Wishing you all the best!</p>
    <p>Thank you</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Want to have a grand launch of your sales contest? <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-launch-a-sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">Click here</a> to learn about different ways to launch your contest effectively so as to create enthusiasm amongst your audience.</div>

<br>

## **Email Template for Announcing the Winners of your contest**

**Subject**: Congratulations, [Winner’s name],  We have a big announcement, We have a winner

**Body**:

Dear [Recipient Name],

It is our pleasure to announce that [winner’s name] is the winner of the [sales contest name].

[Winner’s name] broke the record, previously held by Martin Andrews since last [the time from when the last winner held the record], by securing [goal/KPI/metric achieved] in [contest period]. [Winner] managed to accomplish her goal in a month that is usually considered to be slow, and this fact makes her success so impressive, proving to others that it is not impossible.

For her exceptional capabilities and success, she will be awarded a [sales incentive]. Let us all hope and wish her the best.

Our upcoming contest will begin this [month when the next contest begins]. Be prepared; you just might be the next winner.

Sincerely,

[Senders Name]

[Senders Title]

<br>

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title">Email Example 1: The Fall Contest Winner</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Subject:</span> We have a winner!</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Body:</span> We are pleased to announce that the winner of our fall sales contest is Jane Phillip. Congratulations, Jane!</p>
    <p>Jane was successful in securing 50 new clients in the month of November, which breaks the record held by John grey since last January. Her achievement is particularly impressive since it happened in a month that is generally considered slow, showing once again that it can be done.</p>
    <p>For her outstanding work, she will receive a trip for two to Paris, France. We wish her a very happy journey.</p>
    <p>Our next contest begins in January. Get ready, the next winner maybe you.</p>
    <p>Best Regards,</p>
    <p>Martin,</p>
    <p>Sales Director</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title">Email Example 2: “Salesperson of the Year” contest Winner</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Subject:</span> Congratulations, Nina Austin</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Body:</span> Let’s have a big round of applause for Nina Austin, who has once again won our “salesperson of the year” award. For the second time in a row, Nine is selected as the “salesperson of the year” because of her:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Consistency in meeting targets</li>
      <li>Getting ranked as their favorite sales rep by the customers </li>
      <li>And her dedication to staying ahead even during the sales crisis.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Nina, with her exceptional performance in the years 2018 and 2019 has set an example for all us to follow.</p>
    <p>For her efforts, in addition to a handsome cash bonus, we are sending Nina and her spouse, John, on an all-expenses-paid vacation to Spain. Our heartfelt thanks to Nina for all she does for our company.</p>
    <p>Regards, </p>
    <p>Kevin,</p>
    <p>Sales Director</p>
  </div>
</div>

## **Email Template for announcing the progress of the contest**

**Subject**: [Contest name] Update

**Body**: 

Dear Participant,

There are only [number of days left in the contest] days left in our contest! Let’s make it count. We have raised $[target met till now], but we still need $[target to be met] to reach our goal so we can make $ [revenue goal].

Also, we would like to take this opportunity to thank each one of you for believing in us and showing your active participation in the contest. Before we go on with the contest, lets us all take a moment to appreciate how far we have already reached on the path of achieving our goal. Let’s hope that we reach our goal and beyond soon.

Our priority is to show our commitment by keeping you updated on the progress of the contest. As we hunker down to make [contest goal] a reality, you can expect to receive open, honest, & substantive updates from us every week. 

Feel free to contact us at [email address] in case you have any questions. Thanks again for your support!

[Sender’s Name]

[Sender’s Designation]

<br>

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title">Email Example 1: Announcing the progress of “Show me the money” contest</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Subject:</span> “Show me the money” updates</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Body:</span>
    <p>Dear Team,</p>
    <p>There are only 90 days left in our contest! Let’s make it count. </p>
    <p>We have made $19,800 so far. But, we still need $5,200 to reach our goal so we can make $25,000. The target achievement currently stands at 79%.</p>
    <p>Also, we would like to take this opportunity to thank each one of you for believing in us and actively participating in the contest. Before we go on with the contest, lets us all take a moment to appreciate how far we have already reached on the path of achieving our goal. Let’s hope that we reach our goal and beyond soon.</p>
    <p>Our priority is to show our commitment by keeping you updated on the progress of the contest. As we hunker down to make “$25,000” a reality, you can expect to receive open, honest, & substantive updates from us every week.</p>
    <p>Feel free to contact us in case you have any questions. Thanks again for your support!</p>
    <p>All the best,<p>
    <p>Katy Geller,</p>
    <p>Sales Manager</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="ml_special_div_blog">
  <h4 class="ml_special_div_blog_title">Email Example 2: Announcing the progress of “push the pipeline” Contest</h4>
  <div class="ml_special_div_blog_content">
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Subject:</span> Update on “Push the pipeline” contest</p>
    <p><span class="ml_text_bold">Body:</span>
    <p>Dear Team,</p>
    <p>Amazing news! A big thanks to all of you amazing salespeople. With your generous support, we have moved very far ahead with all the leads in our pipeline. We are thrilled and humbled by your support. And we’re not done yet.</p>
    <p>Here are some updates about the progress of our contest:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>250 leads so far have contacted back showing interest</li>
      <li>Among them, 150 leads have requested for a demo</li>
      <li>90 leads are close to signing a deal with us</li>
      <li>And, we have achieved 20 deals</li>
    </ul>
    <p>We are off to a great start! And let’s try to raise these numbers even higher as we go on with the contest.</p>
    <p>We can’t thank you enough for all your hard work and support. Keep an eye out for next month’s update. And, as always feel free to write to us if you have any queries.</p>
    <p>Wishing you all the very best!<p>
    <p>Katy Geller,</p>
    <p>Sales Manager</p>
  </div>
</div>

#### **Other Helpful Information**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><span class="ml_text_italic">Run hassle-free, fully-automated, virtual contests using </span> <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">SmartWinnr’s mobile-first Gamified Platform.</a> No tedious excel calculations, live leaderboards which can be accessed from mobile and more!</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><span class="ml_text_italic">Get creative incentive ideas for your sales contest winners from our blog: </span> <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated</a></div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><span class="ml_text_italic">Once your contest gets over, you need to think about what kind of awards to present to your contest winners. Get creative ideas from our blog: </span> <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">Creative Employee Recognition Award Names</a></div>

Looking for sales contest names that are specific to your industry? We have got you covered! Check out these links below:

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Insurance - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/23-sales-contest-names-for-insurance" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">23 Sales Contest Names for Insurance</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Pharmaceuticals - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/17-sales-contest-names-for-pharma/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">17 Sales Contest Names for Pharma</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Medical Devices - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/contest-names-for-the-medical-devices-industry/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">Contest Names for the Medical Devices Industry</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Call Center - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/19-creative-call-center-contest-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">19 Creative Call Center Contest Names</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Manufacturing - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/contest-names-for-manufacturing/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">Contest Names for Manufacturing</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Retail Stores - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/19-creative-retail-sales-contest-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">19 Creative Retail Sales Contest Names</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Retail Banking - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/21-sales-contest-names-for-retail-banks/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">21 Sales Contest Names for Retail Banks</a></div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Technology - <a href="https://smartwinnr.com/post/contest-names-in-the-technology-industry/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link ml_text_italic">Contest Names in the Technology Industry</a></div>