---
title: '5 Credit Card Sales Contests'
og_title: 5 Credit Card Sales Contests
description: Gamify credit card selling for your sales reps with these 5 interesting contests
og_description: Gamify credit card selling for your sales reps with these 5 interesting contests
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 61
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -61
slug: "/5-credit-card-sales-contests"
featured_image: "/images/blog-61/61.5-credit-card-sales-contests.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-01-06T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Gamification", "Sales Contests"]
relatedBlogs : ["Sales Contest Communication Template", "Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "5 Sales Contest for Summer", "5 Sales Contests for Winter", "7 Sales contests for Retail Banks"]
---

Selling credit cards is a tough job. It involves a lot of cold calling and rejections. So, it is important to ensure that regardless of this tough process, your reps keep trying enthusiastically to win more sales.

Credit card sales contests can do that for you. By conducting sales contests/sales incentive program you will be able to motivate your reps to keep going during tough times and achieve higher. Check them out below:

<!-- **Also Read**:

Are you looking for **creative names** for your sales contest? Read more on [20 creative sales contest names that will spark your team’s enthusiasm](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/top-20-sales-contest-names/)

Do you want to give out a different **sales incentive** for this sales contest? [Check out 23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/) -->

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-top20 ml-margin-bottom20">
  Are you looking for a ready-made <span class="ml_text_bold">Sales Contest Template?</span> <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Click here</a> to design your own template for free, in just 3 clicks.
</div>

<br>

### **1. Team vs Team Sales Contest**

**Goal**: The goal here is to get your team to achieve a particular credit card sales metric while raising the level of teamwork and peer-to-peer coaching in the team. You could choose any team metric for this contest like generating leads, booking meetings, number of credit cards sold, etc.

**Duration**: 3 weeks contest

**Teams**: Team contest

**Winners**: The team that scores the highest on a given sales metric.

**Prize**: A team incentive that everyone in the team can enjoy like a team outing or a team lunch.

**Competition Theme**: Winning is more fun when you do it as a team. You’ll raise the level of teamwork and peer-to-peer coaching on your sales floor with this contest.

Put two teams against one another on a given sales metric and offer a compelling team incentive to the winning team. Pro-tip: we recommend creating an even distribution of talent across each team.

<br>


### **2. Manager vs Manager contest**

**Goal**: The goal here is to increase the sales of credit cards

**Duration**: 3 weeks

**Teams**: Team-based

**Winners**: Cash bonus to the winning team (entire team including the manager). Also, a team outing for the entire team.

**Prize**: Financial incentive

**Competition Theme**: Run this contest for 3 weeks where the teams of the two top-performing managers in your organization compete with each other to raise the credit card sales for the month. Track the progress of the two teams on a live leaderboard.  Give the winning team cash bonus and take them for a team outing. 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Learn more on creative <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated</a></div>

<!-- [Read more on creative sales incentive that you can offer to keep your sales team motivated](https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/) -->

<br>

### **3. Championship Belt**

**Goal**: The goal of this contest is to motivate all your sales reps to compete and win the championship of credit card sales.

**Duration**: 3 months

**Teams**: Individual

**Winners**: The sales rep who beats the other reps in the team in selling more credit cards by the end of the contest period

**Prize**: Cash bonus plus championship belt

**Competition theme**: Did you know you can purchase a boxing or pro-wrestling style championship belt and tailor it to your liking? Yes, this is a real thing and it makes for a very exciting contest for your sales reps.

Buy a customized Championship Belt. Parade it around the office before your contest begins. Award it to the rep who substantially increases the number of credit cards sold per month. Let him keep the belt until you have another winner in the next championship contest.

<br>

### **4. Presidents club sales contest**

**Goal**: The goal here is to encourage your reps to fill the pipeline with new leads for selling credit cards

**Duration**: 3 days

**Teams**: Individual

**Winners**: The rep who generates more leads than others in the team

**Prize**: This is one of the most famous and attractive sales incentives for the sales reps in most of the organizations. Take the winners of this contest for a President’s Club trip (An annual trip where you take all the top performers in various sales contests for a trip to an exotic location). Treat the winners and their plus-ones to a few fun-filled days of luxury and relaxation.

**Competition Theme**: Run this contest for 3 days and encourage your reps to bring in as many leads as they can during these 3 days. The top 5 reps who bring in more leads by the end of the contest period, win the contest and get to go for president’s club trip.

<br>

### **5. Quota Crusher**

**Goal**: The goal of this contest is to encourage your reps to achieve the credit card sales quota (in terms of revenue)

**Duration**: One quarter

**Teams**: Team-based

**Winners**: The team that hits or achieves above quota (highest revenue generated selling credit cards)

**Prizes**: Give cash bonus to everyone in the team and take them all on a team lunch

**Competition Theme**: Run this competition for a quarter between various sales teams in your bank and see which team meets or achieves above the set quota. Track each team’s performance on a live leaderboard. Give a huge cash bonus to everyone in the winning team and take them for team lunch at the best restaurant in the city.

<br>

#### **Looking for Credit Card sales contest names ?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/credit-card-sales-contest-names/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Credit Card sales contest names</a></div>

<br>

#### **Searching for free themes for your contest?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Contest Theme Generator</a></div> 

<br>

#### **Looking for a sales contest software that will run your contest automatically?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Explore <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/banking/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Smartwinnr’s banking solutions</a> and learn how your sales contests can be enhanced into increasing productivity, decreasing agent attrition and reducing supervisory cost.</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Schedule a <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Free Demo</a> today to see how easy it is to use SmartWinnr to run your sales contests. </div>