---
title: 'How to Launch a Sales Contest'
og_title: How to Launch a Sales Contest
description: Are you planning to launch a sales contest? It matters how you launch it as it’s going to set the stage for the contests. 3 ideas for launching sales contests that will keep the motivation high.
og_description: Are you planning to launch a sales contest? It matters how you launch it as it’s going to set the stage for the contests. 3 ideas for launching sales contests that will keep the motivation high.
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 70
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -70
slug: "/how-to-launch-a-sales-contest"
featured_image: "/images/71.how-to-launch-a-sales-contest.png"
isFeatured: true
date: '2020-02-17T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests"]
relatedBlogs : ["23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "Sales Contest Communication Template", "5 Steps to Create Scorecards which Evaluates your Sales Team’s Performance", "25 Creative Sales Team Names", "Top 20 Sales contest names"]
---

Sales contests typically need:

* **KPIs** against which the performances will be measured. <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/kpi-gamification-how-to-select-kpis/" target="_blank">Learn how</a> to select KPIs

* **A Scoring system** to measure the performance. <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/design-sales-contest-for--new-product-launch/#step-3-choose-a-scoring-mechanism" target="_blank">Learn how</a> to implement a scoring system

* **Teams or participants** to compete in the contest. <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/design-sales-contest-for--new-product-launch/#step-5-create-teams-and-choose-a-leaderboard" target="_blank">Learn how</a> to create teams choose a leaderboard accordingly

* **A Tracking system** to measure the performance. <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/5-steps-to-create-scorecards-which-evaluates-your-sales-team-s-performance/#5-track-and-review" target="_blank">Learn how</a> to track the results of the contest

* **Sales incentives** to present to the winners. <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/" target="_blank">Check out</a> the extensive list of creative sales incentives

But, there is one other thing that is very crucial for running a sales contest successfully. That is-- an event to announce the contest launch. Having a contest launch event sparks the initial enthusiasm amongst the participants. You will also be able to:

* Effectively communicate the ultimate goal of the contest

* Explain what KPIs will be considered and measured for the contest

* Explain the rules and regulations of the contest

* Create enthusiasm by announcing the contest prizes for the winners

* Take suggestions and feedback from the participants to improve the contest and make it relevant to them

There are several ways to effectively announce the launch of a sales contest. In this blog, we are going to shed light on different ways to announce the launch of the sales contests. Check them out:

**Also Read**: <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/" target="_blank">Email Template to communicate a sales contest</a>

<br>

#### **1. In-Person Event**

An in-person event is the most effective way to launch a sales contest. This kind of event suits best for announcing the contest to a small group of people who are all in the same location. 

Get everyone involved in the sales competition to one place, for half-a-day, and announce the launch. Put on a power-point presentation to provide all the details related to the contest. Explain your strategies and ideas of the contest. And, get instant inputs and feedback from everyone. 

This type of face-to-face event provides you an opportunity to work with the participants and make it a success.

<div class="ml_pro_tip">
  <h2>Pro Tip</h2>
  <h4>Give an opportunity for the teams to select a name and a logo for themselves. This will get them excited. They will engage more with the contest. They can pick the team name and the team logo from an <a class="padding0" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/25-creative-sales-team-names/" target="_blank">existing list</a> or create them on their own.</h4>
</div>

<br>

#### **2. Online Event**

An online event is suitable for announcing the contest launch for the sales teams that are operating from different locations. 

In such a situation, it is difficult to get all the teams under one roof. So, leverage technology and have a group skype call with all the sales teams participating in the sales contest. 

Invite a special guest to announce the contest and talk about how excited he is about the contest. Have him explain all the aspects of the contest using a ppt presentation. 

Also, take questions, feedback, and suggestions from everyone to improve the contest.

<br>

#### **3. Have CEO as the Special Guest to Launch the Contest**

This is a sure-shot way of firing-up the spirit of your sales team to race and achieve the contest’s goal. 

Get the CEO of your organization or the country MD or sales head to announce the contest launch. Have him explain the ultimate goal of the contest and why it's important for the progress of the company. 

This way you are not just conveying the importance of the sales contest to your reps but you are also giving them the inspiration they need to chase the greater goal. 

<div class="ml_pro_tip">
  <h2>Pro Tip</h2>
  <h4>If the CEO has to address various teams operating from different locations then use a digital platform to either live-stream his speech or send a recorded video to all the teams.</h4>
</div>

<br>

#### **4. Announce it during one of your sales meetings**

Your annual sales kickoff event or the regional or global sales meetings are a great place to announce sales contests. 

This is the time when everyone in your organization is geared up for the big event. Everyone is really excited to discuss sales plans for the upcoming year or quarter. 

Take this opportunity to announce the sales incentive programs that you are going to conduct throughout the year. Explain what you intend to achieve through each of those contests.

<div class="ml_pro_tip">
  <h2>Pro Tip</h2>
  <h4><a class="padding0" href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/guide-to-plan-and-execute-a-perfect-sales-kickoff-event/" target="_blank">Use our guide</a> on planning and executing a perfectly engaging, entertaining and educating sales kickoff event</h4>
</div>