---
title: 'Creative Employee Recognition Award Names'
og_title: 'Creative Employee Recognition Award Names'
description: Searching for some good award names for your employee recognition and appreciation program? We have got an extensive collection of creative awards that are divided into various categories.
og_description: Searching for some good award names for your employee recognition and appreciation program? We have got an extensive collection of creative awards that are divided into various categories.
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 86
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -86
slug: "/creative-employee-recognition-award-names"
featured_image: "/images/86.creative-employee-recognition-award-names.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-05-26T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Gamification", "Sales Contests"]
relatedBlogs : ["Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "25 Creative Sales Team Names","Funny Sales Team Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "How to Launch a Sales Contest", "Sales Contest Communication Template","The Psychology of Sales Gamification"]
---

When someone says **“Olympics Gold Medalist”**, what comes to your mind? Whether you are a sports fan or not, you can’t help but imagine an athlete who is hardworking, talented, and determined to win the gold medal. That is what awards do to us. They induce the drive to strive hard.

By selecting the correct employee recognition award, you can inspire everyone to do great work and achieve several milestones. That leads to incredible results within your organization. Also, this will make your employees feel recognized, appreciated, and respected for the efforts that they put in.

Use these award names for employee recognition, sales performance, end of the year awards.

<br>

### **Awards for the Top Performer**

**Hall of Fame:** Give this award to the employee who has consistently been a top performer throughout the year

**Diamond Club:** Diamond club award is a club where you join various top-performing employees in your organization throughout the year. And, by the end of the year, you can take all the members of this diamond club on an exotic holiday trip.

**Standing ovation:** Give this award to the employee who often deserves a standing ovation. Since it’s difficult to stand so many times, this award conveys your appreciation for all his contributions and wins.

**Spotlight:** Give this award to the popular top performer in your organization

**“North Star” Employee:** Give this award to the employee who possesses unique and exceptional talent. And, gives an outstanding performance almost every time.

**Surpassing Everest:** Give this award to the employees who have the skill of successfully hitting any big target 

**WOW Award:** Give this award to the employee who always delivers “WOW” experience to the customers

**Attention world, success is here:** This award goes to the employee who has the potential to soon become a top executive in the organization

**Ace of the initiative:** Give this award to the employee who has come up with a great initiative idea that benefitted your company incredibly. 

**The Eccentric Performer:** Give this award to the employees who have an unconventional way of working but they achieve extraordinary results through it.

**The Star Employee:** Give this award to the employees who consistently give a top-notch performance

**Achiever of the Month:** This award goes to the top performer of the month

**The High Flyer:** This award goes to the employees who always aim higher and achieve higher

**The Ace Employee:** This award is for the best employee in the organization or department

**Stellar Award:** Give this award to the employee whose performance is excellent

<br>

### **Awards for the Hard Working Employees**

**Above and beyond:** Give this award to the employees who always go above and beyond their call of duty.

**Mountain Mover Award:** This award should go to the employees who are capable of achieving the toughest of the tough targets with their hard work and dedication.

**Constant Contributor:** This award goes to the employees who constantly play a major role in the completion and success of almost all the projects

**110% Efficient:** This is for the employees who put in more than 100% of their effort in every task that they take up.

**Difference Maker:** This goes to the employee whose work makes all the difference that you need to succeed

**Guts and Grit:** This award goes to the employees who operate with courage and grit.
Outstanding persistence: The receivers of this award show outstanding persistence

<br>

### **Awards for Good Peer-to-peer collaboration and Team-work**

**The Epitome of teamwork:** This award goes to the team whose exceptional teamwork should be taken as inspiration and should be followed by the other teams.

**Humanitarian Award:** This award goes to the employee who always helps his team members and drives them towards success.

**Key Contributor:** This is for the key contributors in a team

**All for one, one or all:** This award goes to the team that is known for its unity

**3 cheers:** This award goes to the team that never fails to succeed when all the team members work together.

**“Your Teamwork is our Dreamwork” Award:** Give this award to the team whose excellent teamwork has brought you incredible results

**The Dumbledore:** Just like the dumbledore in Harry Potter, this person is the wise-man in the team. He uses his wisdom to resolve the work-related issues of all his team members.

**Sidekick Salute:** A worker can give this award to her co-worker honoring her outstanding support through thicks and thins

**Cloud 9 Collaborators:** This award goes to the team whose collaboration and understanding amongst each other is impeccable

<br>

### **Service or Tenure Award**

**One Mile Down:** For the sales reps who have successfully completed one year of employment with you.

**Running the Marathon:** Use this award to recognize those who have dedicated 5 or more years of service towards the organization and are still on.

**Forever with Us:** Give this award to the employees who have been working with you for more than a decade

**The Iron Pillar:** Give this to the employees who stood by your organization through thicks and thins since they joined.

**The collared Diamond:** Give this award to the employees who are most experienced, most precious, and most valuable to your organization. You want to retain these people at any cost.

**Let’s Grow Old Together:** This award goes to the employee who has been with the company for a long time. This employee has contributed a lot towards the growth of the company while developing herself professionally. 

**Unmatched Dedication:** Give this award goes to the most dedicated employee in your organization.

**To the Moon and Back:** Give this award to the people who can put in hard work to any extent to achieve something.

**Salute to Loyalty:** This award goes to the most loyal employee in your organization

**The Ultimate Guide:** This award goes to the employee who has been with your company for a long time and knows your company inside out. This employee can technically be the guide of your company

<br>

### **Awards for High Performing New Employees**

**Brightest Beginner:** This award goes to the most intelligent new employees who have grasped a lot of skills very quickly during the first few days of joining.

**Rockstar Rookie:** This award goes to the new employee who has performed exceptionally well with very little hand-holding.

**Future is Bright:** Give this award to the new hire who has the potential to achieve greater heights in the organization going forward

**Fast Starter:** Give this award to the new hire who is able to work at par with the experienced employees in very less time.

**New Contributor:** This award goes to the new hire who has readily taken up higher responsibilities in projects and contributes towards the success of the projects.

<br>

### **Awards for Retiring Employees**

**Farewell Friend:** This award is to convey a bitter-sweet goodbye to the employee who is leaving the company

**Leaving a Legacy:** Give this award to the employee who has given a great deal of success to the company before leaving.

**Heros are remembered:** This award goes to the retiring employee who was nothing less than a hero to the company.

**Legends are never Forgotten:** This award conveys the retiring employee that you will always remember all his good deeds and hard work even when he is not around in the office.

<br>

### **Awards for the Employees in the leadership role**

**People’s Choice Award:** This award should be lifted by the manager who is truly loved and respected by his team. The people in his team are more than happy to work under him.

**Leading by Example:** This award goes to the manager who always sets a good example for his team to follow

**Phenomenal Leadership:** Give this award to the manager who has exceptional leadership skills and operates like a true leader.

**Role Model of the Year:** Award this title to the best manager of the year

**Standout chief:** This award goes to the manager whose managerial practices are out of the ordinary but produce great results

**Big kahuna Award:** This award goes to the highly skilled and popular manager at your organization.

<br>

### **Awards to Appreciate Employees’ Learning and Development**

**Champion of Knowledge:** You can conduct a knowledge championship competition for all your employees and test their knowledge. Then, give this award to the employee who wins in the knowledge championship competition

**Learning Yoda:** This award goes to the employee who never gives up learning and refreshing knowledge. This employee is always up-to-date with all the work-related information.

**The Product Wizard:** This award goes to the employee who knows your company’s products inside out.

**The Magical Skill-acquirer:** Give this award to the employee who is incredibly fast in acquiring new skills.

**You are the wealth of knowledge:** Give this award to the employee who has an abundant wealth of knowledge

**The avid learners:** This award goes to the most enthusiastic learner in your organization.
The database: This award goes to the employee who is like a walking, talking database that contains all your company’s information.

**The outstanding development award:** This award goes to the employee who has drastically improved his knowledge and performance within a short span of time.

**Reading Rockstar:** Give this award to the employee who is constantly reading and gaining knowledge whenever he gets some free time at work.

<br>

### **Sales Incentive Awards**

**Nobel Sales Prize:** This name is inspired from the prestigious award-- “Nobel Peace Prize”. Give this award to the sales employee who has made some extraordinary contributions to your organization’s sales

**Excellent Salesmanship Award:** This award goes to the salesperson whose sales skills are out of this world.

**The Rising Sales Star:** Give this award to the salesperson who displays the qualities of becoming a top sales executive at your organization going forward.

**Sales for Life:** Give this award to the employee who is immensely dedicated to improving sales at your organization

**Best in Sales:** This award goes to the best sales employee in your organization.

<br>

#### **Searching for incentive ideas for your contest?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Get creative incentive ideas for your sales contest winners from our blog: <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-incentive-ideas-to-keep-your-sales-team-motivated/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated</a></div> 

<br>

#### **Searching for free themes for your contest?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/#/contest-theme-generator" rel="noreferrer" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Contest Theme Generator</a></div> 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10"><a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">SmartWinnr’s Gamified sales contests</a> provide an effective and efficient way for you to introduce gamification into your incentive plan. We help you run hassle-free, fully automated sales contests. Live leaderboards, insight into team level, individual level performance, and most importantly, no tedious excel calculations.</div> 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">If you’re from the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/insurance/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Insurance industry</a> explore how your sales incentive plan can be embedded into increasing productivity, decreasing agent attrition and reducing supervisory cost.</div> 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">If you’re from <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/banking/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Banking</a>, learn about how to increase your upsell and cross-sell revenue, improve customer satisfaction, and motivate your branch and field teams through your incentive plan.</div> 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">If you’re from the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/pharma/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Pharmaceutical</a> industry, integrate your sales incentive plan into a gamified sales contest, focusing on collections, POB, doctor visits, chemist visits and more.</div> 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">If you’re from the <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/solutions/medical-devices/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Medical Devices</a> industry, create one incentive plan that covers product knowledge, to handle customer conversations, to programming devices, to sales.</div> 

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Curious to learn more about it? <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Book a Demo</a> today!</div>