---
title: 'Contest Names in the Technology Industry'
og_title: 'Contest Names in the Technology Industry'
description: Looking to run a sales contest in the IT industry? Explore our list of cool, creative, and catchy contest names for the Technology sector
og_description: Looking to run a sales contest in the IT industry? Explore our list of cool, creative, and catchy contest names for the Technology sector
categories: ["ACM"]
id: 98
author:
  name: SmartWinnr
  email: smartwinnr@mobillionlabs.com
weight: -98
slug: "/contest-names-in-the-technology-industry"
featured_image: "/images/98.contest-names-in-the-technology-industry.jpg"
isFeatured: false
date: '2020-07-20T10:00:32+08:00'
tags: ["Sales", "Sales Contests", "Gamification"]
relatedBlogs : ["9 Proven Sales Contests that Drive Productivity", "How to Run a March Madness Contest - The Step by Step Guide", "8 Tips to Create your Sales Contests around March Madness", "5 Sales Contests for Winter", "5 Sales Contest for Summer", "Top 20 Sales Contest Names", "25 Creative Sales Team Names", "23 Sales incentive ideas to keep your sales team motivated", "Sales Contest Communication Template", "Creative Employee Recognition Award Names", "How to Launch a Sales Contest", "Funny Sales Team Names"]
---

Technology is one of the most desirable, fast-paced, and ever-evolving industries out there. 

Selling for such an industry is not easy. Tech sales reps have to constantly deal with:

* Changing customer needs

* Regular feature requests 

* Ever-evolving technology advancements

* Constant product updates 

How do you keep them motivated to consistently deliver a high-level performance?

**Answer**: By running interesting and engaging sales contests

Looking for creative contest ideas? Check out our interesting reads below:

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/how-to-run-a-march-madness-contest-the-step-by-step-guide/" target="_blank" class="">How to Run a March Madness Contest - The Step by Step Guide</a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contests-for-winter/" target="_blank" class="">5 Sales Contests for Winter</a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/5-sales-contest-for-summer/" target="_blank" class="">5 Sales Contest for Summer</a>

<a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/9-proven-sales-contests-that-drive-productivity/" target="_blank" class="">9 Proven Sales Contests that Drive Productivity</a>

Once you finalize on a contest idea, focus on giving it a catchy name. Here is a list of creative and cool sales contest names you can choose from:

<div class="ml_pro_tip ml-margin-top20 ml-margin-bottom20">
  Are you looking for a ready-made <span class="ml_text_bold">Sales Contest Template?</span> <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Click here</a> to design your own template for free, in just 3 clicks.
</div>

<br>

### **General Tech Sales Contests**

**1. Freemium Frenzy:** Run this contest around getting more customers to signup for the free trial of a product.

**2. Upsell and Prosper:** Focus this competition around getting your reps to upsell to the existing customers. The rep who makes the most significant up-sell wins the contest. 

**3. Match Day:** Run this contest when you have just launched a new product into the market. Encourage your reps to sell 100 units of the new product on the first day of its launch.

**4. League of Legends:** Run this as a monthly contest between the teams of various managers. Set a KPI based on which the teams can compete with each other. The KPI could be:

* Highest sales revenue generated in a month

* Highest number of products sold per month

* Or even the single largest transaction in a month
	
The first team to achieve the KPI target wins the competition

**5. Pro <****Product name> League/ <****Product name> Super League:** Is your salesforce spread across various territories? Run this as a quarterly contest between the territories. Motivate your sales staff to increase the sales of a new product. By the end of the quarter, the territory that significantly raises the sales of the new product wins the contest.

**6. Subscription Sweeps:** Run this contest and march your reps to increase paid subscriptions of a product 

**7. Slump Buster Contest:** Slow times are inevitable in sales. This contest is a great way to spur some activity from your sales team during those slow times. Conduct this contest and challenge your team to contact the old or existing customers and try to sell to them (repeat or upgraded products).

**8. Retention Squad:**  Some contracts are prone to cancellation after a certain period of time. Run this as a quarterly or yearly contest and encourage your reps to focus on retaining customers who are on a renewable contract. The winner will be the rep who retains more customers during the contest period.

**9. Make IT Happen:** Conduct this contest when you have just a couple of weeks left before the end of a quarter and you want your sales reps to meet a huge quarterly revenue target

**10. Close Now, Wine Later:** Run this contest for 6 months and motivate your sales reps to close more deals. By the end of the contest, the salesperson who closes the highest number of deals gets to go on a weekend trip to a vineyard with her family.

**11. SaaS-y Club:** A competition around increasing the sales of software as a service (SaaS) products.

<br>

### **Contests for Generating Leads**

**12. Pirates of treasured leads:** Create this contest around generating as many leads as possible while releasing a new product into the market. Provide your participants with pirate hats and tattoos to create the contest’s theme.

**13. Hourly Rush/ Rush Hour:** Run this contest every day for an hour and motivate your reps to fill the sales pipeline with as many leads as they can.

**14. Most Wanted:** Within your industry, you must be having a few big players who you’d love to have as clients. Conduct this contest around that goal. March your reps to contact the “most wanted” prospects and enter them into the sales cycle.

<br>

### **Contests for Training Sales Reps**

**15. Big Tech Theory:** This contest is named after the famous TV series “Big Bang Theory”. Conduct a quiz competition every week to build fluent product knowledge amongst your sales reps. Select the top 3 reps with the highest score in the quiz as winners.

**16. Pitch Funny:** This makes for a fun contest for your new hire sales reps.  Conduct a video coaching contest and ask all your new hires to pitch a product in a fun way. Whoever comes up with the most creative and fun way of pitching the product wins the competition.

**17. Selling Bee:** The name of this contest is a wordplay around “Spelling Bee”-- the famous spelling competition. Conduct a quiz contest every week and focus it around improving your reps’ sales knowledge. Focus the quizzes on topics like:

* Objection handling techniques

* Sales methodologies

* Best Closing techniques etc.
	
The top 3 reps with the highest score in the quiz win the contest.

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Use our <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/targeted-learning/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">SmartQuizzes</a> to drive product knowledge, sales knowledge, market knowledge, and more.</div>

<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Learn how <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-coaching/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">SmartWinnr’s Video Coaching</a> tool can help you conduct effective gamified video coaching contests.</div>

<br>

### **Contest for Service Engineers**

**18. Ninja Win/ Nerds at work:** This contest is for your service engineers who visit the customers to install or service the products. Run this contest every day and encourage your service engineers to visit more customers. By the end of the day, whoever covers more customers than the rest wins the competition. 

<!-- <div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Once you finalize the name, the next step is to communicate it effectively to your participants. Follow our <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/sales-contest-communication-template/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">sales contest communication template</a> to announce the contest.</div>
  
<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Wondering what awards to give to your contest winners? Read our article on <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/post/creative-employee-recognition-award-names/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">creative employee recognition awards.</a></div>
 
<div class="ml_text_italic ml-margin-bottom10">Worried about the additional work that’s going to hit your desk for this contest? Learn how <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml-desc-text">SmartWinnr</a> can help you conduct these contests automatically, with no effort from you.</div> -->

<br>

#### **Searching for free themes for your contest?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Select from ready-made themes like NFL, Olympics and more. Select KPIs, get engaging team names, team logos, and banners to drive a contest that your participants will remember - <a href="https://tools.smartwinnr.com/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Contest Theme Generator</a></div> 

<br>

#### **Looking for a sales contest software that will run your contest automatically?**

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Explore <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/product/sales-contest/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Smartwinnr’s solutions</a> and learn how your sales contests can be enhanced into increasing productivity, decreasing agent attrition and reducing supervisory cost.</div>

<div class="ml-margin-bottom10">Schedule a <a href="https://www.smartwinnr.com/request-demo/" target="_blank" class="ml_custom_link">Free Demo</a> today to see how easy it is to use SmartWinnr to run your sales contests. </div>